docs/openapi/overview.md, before:

# Testkube OpenAPI Definitions

Testkube exposes two REST APIs that can be consumed accordingly:

- The Agent API exposed by the [Standalone Agent](/articles/install/standalone-agent)
- The Control Plane API exposed by the [Testkube Control-Plane](/articles/install/overview) (both cloud and on-prem)

## Agent API

The Agent API provides programmatic access to most features exposed
by the agent itself when it is running in [standalone mode](/articles/install/standalone-agent). This is the same API used by 
the Testkube CLI for most of its commands. 

By default this API does not require any authentication for any of its operations - so be careful in giving access.

## Control Plane API

The Control Plane API provides programmatic access 
to features both specific the control-plane itself, and acts as a proxy for making
authenticated calls to connected environment agents. 

The operations exposed by the control plane are here divided into the following categories:

- **Core Operations**: High-level control plane operations. 
- **Agent Operations**: Proxied Agent operations for a specific environment, these are the same as the Core Agent operations, 
  but with organization and environment identifiers.
- **Organization Operations**: Operations for a specific organization defined in the Control Plane.
- **Environment Operations**: Operations for a specific environment defined within an organization.

These API calls all require an API token specified using `Bearer Token` authentication. 
- API Tokens can be created as described at [Organization Management](../testkube-pro/articles/api-token-management).
- Add an `Authorization` HTTP header to your API requests with the value `Bearer: <API token>`

Commit message:

updated split-openapis.ts to generate public openapi definitions for both agent and control-plane apis

docs/openapi/overview.md, after:

# Testkube OpenAPI Definitions

Testkube exposes two REST APIs that can be consumed accordingly:

- The Agent API exposed by the [Standalone Agent](/articles/install/standalone-agent)
- The Control Plane API exposed by the [Testkube Control-Plane](/articles/install/overview) (both cloud and on-prem)

:::tip
The OpenAPI definitions for these APIs are available at
- [Standalone Agent OpenAPI](/openapi/testkube-agent-openapi.yaml)
- [Control Plane OpenAPI](/openapi/testkube-control-plane-openapi.yaml)
:::

## Agent API

The Agent API provides programmatic access to most features exposed
by the agent itself when it is running in [standalone mode](/articles/install/standalone-agent). This is the same API used by 
the Testkube CLI for most of its commands. 

By default, this API does not require any authentication for any of its operations - so be careful in giving access.

## Control Plane API

The Control Plane API provides programmatic access 
to features both specific the control-plane itself, and acts as a proxy for making
authenticated calls to connected environment agents. 

The operations exposed by the control plane are here divided into the following categories:

- **Core Operations**: High-level control plane operations. 
- **Agent Operations**: Proxied Agent operations for a specific environment, these are the same as the Core Agent operations, 
  but with organization and environment identifiers.
- **Organization Operations**: Operations for a specific organization defined in the Control Plane.
- **Environment Operations**: Operations for a specific environment defined within an organization.

These API calls all require an API token specified using `Bearer Token` authentication. 
- API Tokens can be created as described at [Organization Management](../testkube-pro/articles/api-token-management).
- Add an `Authorization` HTTP header to your API requests with the value `Bearer: <API token>`
