docs/cli/testkube_docker_init.md, before:

<head>
  <meta name="docsearch:indexPrefix" content="reference-doc" />
</head>

## testkube docker init

Run Testkube Docker Agent and connect to Testkube Pro environment

```
testkube docker init [flags]
```

### Options

```
      --agent-prefix string             usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "agent")
      --agent-token string              Testkube Pro agent key [required for centralized mode]
      --agent-uri string                Testkube Pro agent URI [required for centralized mode] (default "agent.testkube.io:443")
      --agent-uri-override string       agent uri override
      --api-prefix string               usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "api")
      --api-uri-override string         api uri override
      --auth-uri-override string        auth uri override
      --custom-auth                     usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode]
      --docker-container string         Docker container name for Testkube Docker Agent (default "testkube-agent")
      --docker-image string             Docker image for Testkube Docker Agent (default "kubeshop/testkube-agent:<latest-stable-release>")
      --env-id string                   Testkube Pro environment id [required for centralized mode]. It can be skipped for no login mode
      --feature-logs-v2                 Logs v2 feature flag
  -h, --help                            help for init
      --logs-prefix string              usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "logs")
      --logs-uri string                 Testkube Pro logs URI [required for centralized mode]
      --logs-uri-override string        logs service uri override
      --master-insecure                 should client connect in insecure mode (will use http instead of https)
      --no-login testkube set context   Ignore login prompt, set existing token later by testkube set context
      --org-id string                   Testkube Pro organization id [required for centralized mode]. It can be skipped for no login mode
      --root-domain string              usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "testkube.io")
      --ui-prefix string                usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "app")
      --ui-uri-override string          ui uri override
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
  -a, --api-uri string          api uri, default value read from config if set (default "http://localhost:8088")
  -c, --client string           client used for connecting to Testkube API one of proxy|direct|cluster (default "proxy")
      --header stringToString   headers for direct client key value pair: --header name=value (default [])
      --insecure                insecure connection for direct client
      --namespace string        Kubernetes namespace, default value read from config if set (default "testkube")
      --verbose                 show additional debug messages
```

### SEE ALSO

- [testkube docker](testkube_docker.md) - Testkube Docker commands

Commit message:

feat: callback port help
Signed-off-by: Vladislav Sukhin <vladislav@kubeshop.io>

docs/cli/testkube_docker_init.md, after:

<head>
  <meta name="docsearch:indexPrefix" content="reference-doc" />
</head>

## testkube docker init

Run Testkube Docker Agent and connect to Testkube Pro environment

```
testkube docker init [flags]
```

### Options

```
      --agent-prefix string             usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "agent")
      --agent-token string              Testkube Pro agent key [required for centralized mode]
      --agent-uri string                Testkube Pro agent URI [required for centralized mode] (default "agent.testkube.io:443")
      --agent-uri-override string       agent uri override
      --api-prefix string               usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "api")
      --api-uri-override string         api uri override
      --auth-uri-override string        auth uri override
      --callback-port int               usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default 8090)
      --custom-auth                     usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode]
      --docker-container string         Docker container name for Testkube Docker Agent (default "testkube-agent")
      --docker-image string             Docker image for Testkube Docker Agent (default "kubeshop/testkube-agent:<latest-stable-release>")
      --env-id string                   Testkube Pro environment id [required for centralized mode]. It can be skipped for no login mode
      --feature-logs-v2                 Logs v2 feature flag
  -h, --help                            help for init
      --logs-prefix string              usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "logs")
      --logs-uri string                 Testkube Pro logs URI [required for centralized mode]
      --logs-uri-override string        logs service uri override
      --master-insecure                 should client connect in insecure mode (will use http instead of https)
      --no-login testkube set context   Ignore login prompt, set existing token later by testkube set context
      --org-id string                   Testkube Pro organization id [required for centralized mode]. It can be skipped for no login mode
      --root-domain string              usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "testkube.io")
      --ui-prefix string                usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "app")
      --ui-uri-override string          ui uri override
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
  -a, --api-uri string          api uri, default value read from config if set (default "http://localhost:8088")
  -c, --client string           client used for connecting to Testkube API one of proxy|direct|cluster (default "proxy")
      --header stringToString   headers for direct client key value pair: --header name=value (default [])
      --insecure                insecure connection for direct client
      --namespace string        Kubernetes namespace, default value read from config if set (default "testkube")
      --verbose                 show additional debug messages
```

### SEE ALSO

- [testkube docker](testkube_docker.md) - Testkube Docker commands
