docs/cli/testkube_pro_agent.md, before:


<head>
  <meta name="og:type" content="reference-doc" />
</head>

## testkube pro agent

Install Testkube Pro Agent and connect to Testkube Pro environment

```
testkube pro agent [flags]
```

### Options

```
      --agent-prefix string             usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "agent")
      --agent-token string              Testkube Pro agent key [required for centralized mode]
      --agent-uri string                Testkube Pro agent URI [required for centralized mode]
      --api-prefix string               usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "api")
      --chart string                    chart name (usually you don't need to change it) (default "kubeshop/testkube")
      --dry-run                         dry run mode - only print commands that would be executed
      --embedded-nats                   embedded NATS server in agent
      --env-id string                   Testkube Pro environment id [required for centralized mode]
      --export                          Export the values.yaml
      --feature-logs-v2                 Logs v2 feature flag
  -h, --help                            help for agent
      --logs-prefix string              usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "logs")
      --logs-uri string                 Testkube Pro logs URI [required for centralized mode]
      --master-insecure                 should client connect in insecure mode (will use http instead of https)
      --multi-namespace                 multi namespace mode
      --name string                     installation name (usually you don't need to change it) (default "testkube")
      --namespace string                namespace where to install (default "testkube")
      --no-confirm                      don't ask for confirmation - unatended installation mode
      --no-login testkube set context   Ignore login prompt, set existing token later by testkube set context
      --no-minio                        don't install MinIO
      --no-mongo                        don't install MongoDB
      --no-operator                     should operator be installed (for more instances in multi namespace mode it should be set to true)
      --org-id string                   Testkube Pro organization id [required for centralized mode]
      --root-domain string              usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "testkube.io")
      --ui-prefix string                usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "app")
      --values string                   path to Helm values file
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
  -a, --api-uri string          api uri, default value read from config if set (default "http://localhost:8088")
  -c, --client string           client used for connecting to Testkube API one of proxy|direct|cluster (default "proxy")
      --header stringToString   headers for direct client key value pair: --header name=value (default [])
      --insecure                insecure connection for direct client
      --verbose                 show additional debug messages
```

### SEE ALSO

* [testkube pro](testkube_pro.md)	 - Testkube Pro commands

Commit message:

fix: add helm init options (#162)
Signed-off-by: Vladislav Sukhin <vladislav@kubeshop.io>

docs/cli/testkube_pro_agent.md, after:


<head>
  <meta name="og:type" content="reference-doc" />
</head>

## testkube pro agent

Install Testkube Pro Agent and connect to Testkube Pro environment

```
testkube pro agent [flags]
```

### Options

```
      --agent-prefix string             usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "agent")
      --agent-token string              Testkube Pro agent key [required for centralized mode]
      --agent-uri string                Testkube Pro agent URI [required for centralized mode]
      --api-prefix string               usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "api")
      --chart string                    chart name (usually you don't need to change it) (default "kubeshop/testkube")
      --dry-run                         dry run mode - only print commands that would be executed
      --embedded-nats                   embedded NATS server in agent
      --env-id string                   Testkube Pro environment id [required for centralized mode]
      --export                          Export the values.yaml
      --feature-logs-v2                 Logs v2 feature flag
      --helm-arg stringToString         helm arg option in form of key=value (default [])
      --helm-set stringToString         helm set option in form of key=value (default [])
  -h, --help                            help for agent
      --logs-prefix string              usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "logs")
      --logs-uri string                 Testkube Pro logs URI [required for centralized mode]
      --master-insecure                 should client connect in insecure mode (will use http instead of https)
      --multi-namespace                 multi namespace mode
      --name string                     installation name (usually you don't need to change it) (default "testkube")
      --namespace string                namespace where to install (default "testkube")
      --no-confirm                      don't ask for confirmation - unatended installation mode
      --no-login testkube set context   Ignore login prompt, set existing token later by testkube set context
      --no-minio                        don't install MinIO
      --no-mongo                        don't install MongoDB
      --no-operator                     should operator be installed (for more instances in multi namespace mode it should be set to true)
      --org-id string                   Testkube Pro organization id [required for centralized mode]
      --root-domain string              usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "testkube.io")
      --ui-prefix string                usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "app")
      --values string                   path to Helm values file
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
  -a, --api-uri string          api uri, default value read from config if set (default "http://localhost:8088")
  -c, --client string           client used for connecting to Testkube API one of proxy|direct|cluster (default "proxy")
      --header stringToString   headers for direct client key value pair: --header name=value (default [])
      --insecure                insecure connection for direct client
      --verbose                 show additional debug messages
```

### SEE ALSO

* [testkube pro](testkube_pro.md)	 - Testkube Pro commands
