docs/cli/testkube_login.md, before:

<head>
  <meta name="docsearch:indexPrefix" content="reference-doc" />
</head>

## testkube login

Login to Testkube Pro

```
testkube login [flags]
```

### Options

```
      --agent-prefix string         usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "agent")
      --agent-token string          Testkube Pro agent key [required for centralized mode]
      --agent-uri string            Testkube Pro agent URI [required for centralized mode]
      --agent-uri-override string   agent uri override
      --api-prefix string           usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "api")
      --api-uri-override string     api uri override
      --auth-uri-override string    auth uri override
      --custom-auth                 usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode]
      --env-id string               Testkube Pro environment id [required for centralized mode]
      --feature-logs-v2             Logs v2 feature flag
  -h, --help                        help for login
      --logs-prefix string          usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "logs")
      --logs-uri string             Testkube Pro logs URI [required for centralized mode]
      --logs-uri-override string    logs service uri override
      --master-insecure             should client connect in insecure mode (will use http instead of https)
      --org-id string               Testkube Pro organization id [required for centralized mode]
      --root-domain string          usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "testkube.io")
      --ui-prefix string            usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "app")
      --ui-uri-override string      ui uri override
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
  -a, --api-uri string          api uri, default value read from config if set (default "http://localhost:8088")
  -c, --client string           client used for connecting to Testkube API one of proxy|direct|cluster (default "proxy")
      --header stringToString   headers for direct client key value pair: --header name=value (default [])
      --insecure                insecure connection for direct client
      --namespace string        Kubernetes namespace, default value read from config if set (default "testkube")
      --verbose                 show additional debug messages
```

### SEE ALSO

- [testkube](testkube.md) - Testkube entrypoint for kubectl plugin

Commit message:

feat: callback port help
Signed-off-by: Vladislav Sukhin <vladislav@kubeshop.io>

docs/cli/testkube_login.md, after:

<head>
  <meta name="docsearch:indexPrefix" content="reference-doc" />
</head>

## testkube login

Login to Testkube Pro

```
testkube login [flags]
```

### Options

```
      --agent-prefix string         usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "agent")
      --agent-token string          Testkube Pro agent key [required for centralized mode]
      --agent-uri string            Testkube Pro agent URI [required for centralized mode]
      --agent-uri-override string   agent uri override
      --api-prefix string           usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "api")
      --api-uri-override string     api uri override
      --auth-uri-override string    auth uri override
      --callback-port int           usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default 8090)
      --custom-auth                 usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode]
      --env-id string               Testkube Pro environment id [required for centralized mode]
      --feature-logs-v2             Logs v2 feature flag
  -h, --help                        help for login
      --logs-prefix string          usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "logs")
      --logs-uri string             Testkube Pro logs URI [required for centralized mode]
      --logs-uri-override string    logs service uri override
      --master-insecure             should client connect in insecure mode (will use http instead of https)
      --org-id string               Testkube Pro organization id [required for centralized mode]
      --root-domain string          usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "testkube.io")
      --ui-prefix string            usually don't need to be changed [required for custom cloud mode] (default "app")
      --ui-uri-override string      ui uri override
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```
  -a, --api-uri string          api uri, default value read from config if set (default "http://localhost:8088")
  -c, --client string           client used for connecting to Testkube API one of proxy|direct|cluster (default "proxy")
      --header stringToString   headers for direct client key value pair: --header name=value (default [])
      --insecure                insecure connection for direct client
      --namespace string        Kubernetes namespace, default value read from config if set (default "testkube")
      --verbose                 show additional debug messages
```

### SEE ALSO

- [testkube](testkube.md) - Testkube entrypoint for kubectl plugin
