docs/articles/install/0-overview.mdx, before:

# Testkube Installation Overview

<div style={{ display: 'flex', gap: '40px', marginBottom: '20px' }}>
  <div style={{ flex: 1 }}>
    ## Overview

    Testkube contains two main components:

    1. The **Testkube Control Plane**, which includes the [Dashboard](/articles/testkube-dashboard-explore), Storage for Results/Logs/Artifacts, User/Role mgmt, Insights, 3rd party integrations, etc.

    2. The **Testkube Agent**, which executes your tests, collects test execution logs/results and listens for Kubernetes Events.

       The Agent is **Open-Source** and can be deployed both Standalone and connected to the Control Plane.

       **The agent is _always_ deployed by you in your own infrastructure.**
  </div>
  <div style={{ flex: 1 }}>
    <div style={{ textAlign: 'center' }}>
      <img src="/img/testkube-components.png" alt="Testkube Components" />
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

## Deployment Options

You can deploy Testkube in one of the following ways:

| Deployment Option         | &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Licensing&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; | &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Agent&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; | &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Control&nbsp;Plane&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; | &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dashboard&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; | &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;CLI&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; |
|---------------------------|:---------------------------------------------:|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|:---------------------------------------------:|:---------------------------------------------------------------:|
| **On-Prem Control Plane** |   [Commercial](https://testkube.io/pricing)   |                                             Hosted by you                                             |                                                   Hosted by you                                                    |                       ✅                       |                                ✅                                |
| **Cloud Control Plane**   |   [Commercial](https://testkube.io/pricing)   |                                             Hosted by you                                             |                                                 Hosted by Testkube                                                 |                       ✅                       |                                ✅                                |
| **Standalone Agent**      |     [Open Source](/articles/open-source)      |                                             Hosted by you                                             |                                                         ❌                                                          |                       ❌                       |                                ✅                                |

The high-level deployment architecture and how to get started with each of these is described below.

:::note
An architectural overview of Testkube and its components is available in the [Architecture Reference](../architecture).
:::

## On-Prem Control Plane

Testkube with the On-Prem Control Plane runs entirely in your infrastructure and can also run in air-gapped environments.
The default installation deploys both the Control Plane and a single Testkube Agent within the same namespace.

You can install a preconfigured version of Testkube On-Prem [with the CLI][install-cli] for an out-of-the-box experience
or install [with Helm][install-helm] for more configurability in production scenarios.

In either case, you will need to [request a trial license](https://testkube.io/download) that will be required
during the installation process.

A high-level deployment architecture for Testkube On-Prem is shown below.

:::tip
Check out Testkubes [Multi-Agent functionality](/articles/install/multi-agent) to learn how you can run your tests
in as many fixed and ephemeral cluster/namespaces as you need.
:::

![Deployment with single agent](../../img/architecture-default.jpeg)

:::tip
Check out [Helm Components](/articles/helm-components) to see all the actual components used by Testkube.
:::

## Cloud Control Plane

When using the Testkube Cloud Control Plane, the Control Plane is managed by the Testkube team, you only have to install the
Testkube Agent in your infrastructure wherever you want to run your tests.

To get started, visit https://app.testkube.io and sign up for a trial account. During the onboarding you will be
prompted to create an initial Testkube Environment, which will provide you with the required CLI/Helm commands to
deploy the corresponding Testkube Agent in your infrastructure - [Read More](/testkube-pro/articles/environment-management#creating-a-new-environment)

A high-level deployment architecture for the Testkube Cloud Control Plane is shown below.

![Deployment with managed control plane](../../img/architecture-managed.jpeg)

:::info
Even when using the Testkube Cloud Control Plane, your actual tests are never run or stored on our servers, only test
logs and artifacts will be stored.
:::

## Standalone Agent

The Testkube Agent is Open Source and can be deployed without being connected to the Testkube
Control Plane. All management and test execution tasks are done through the [Testkube CLI](/articles/cli).

- Learn more about how to [deploy the Standalone Agent][deploy-standalone].

![Deployment with standalone agent](../../img/architecture-standalone.jpeg)

[cloud]: https://app.testkube.io/
[install-cli]: /articles/tutorial/quickstart/individual-evaluation
[install-helm]: /articles/install/install-with-helm
[deploy-standalone]: /articles/install/standalone-agent
[testkube-repo]: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube

Commit message:

docs: update installation and evaluation process details, emphasizing the need to schedule time with the Solutions Engineering team for trial licenses and support

docs/articles/install/0-overview.mdx, after:

# Testkube Installation Overview

<div style={{ display: 'flex', gap: '40px', marginBottom: '20px' }}>
  <div style={{ flex: 1 }}>
    ## Overview

    Testkube contains two main components:

    1. The **Testkube Control Plane**, which includes the [Dashboard](/articles/testkube-dashboard-explore), Storage for Results/Logs/Artifacts, User/Role mgmt, Insights, 3rd party integrations, etc.

    2. The **Testkube Agent**, which executes your tests, collects test execution logs/results and listens for Kubernetes Events.

       The Agent is **Open-Source** and can be deployed both Standalone and connected to the Control Plane.

       **The agent is _always_ deployed by you in your own infrastructure.**
  </div>
  <div style={{ flex: 1 }}>
    <div style={{ textAlign: 'center' }}>
      <img src="/img/testkube-components.png" alt="Testkube Components" />
    </div>
  </div>
</div>

## Deployment Options

You can deploy Testkube in one of the following ways:

| Deployment Option         | &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Licensing&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; | &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Agent&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; | &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Control&nbsp;Plane&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; | &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;Dashboard&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; | &nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;CLI&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp;&nbsp; |
|---------------------------|:---------------------------------------------:|:-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|:------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------:|:---------------------------------------------:|:---------------------------------------------------------------:|
| **On-Prem Control Plane** |   [Commercial](https://testkube.io/pricing)   |                                             Hosted by you                                             |                                                   Hosted by you                                                    |                       ✅                       |                                ✅                                |
| **Cloud Control Plane**   |   [Commercial](https://testkube.io/pricing)   |                                             Hosted by you                                             |                                                 Hosted by Testkube                                                 |                       ✅                       |                                ✅                                |
| **Standalone Agent**      |     [Open Source](/articles/open-source)      |                                             Hosted by you                                             |                                                         ❌                                                          |                       ❌                       |                                ✅                                |

The high-level deployment architecture and how to get started with each of these is described below.

:::note
An architectural overview of Testkube and its components is available in the [Architecture Reference](../architecture).
:::

## On-Prem Control Plane

Testkube with the On-Prem Control Plane runs entirely in your infrastructure and can also run in air-gapped environments.
The default installation deploys both the Control Plane and a single Testkube Agent within the same namespace.

You can install a preconfigured version of Testkube On-Prem [with the CLI][install-cli] for an out-of-the-box experience
or install [with Helm][install-helm] for more configurability in production scenarios.

A trial license will be required during installation - **[schedule time with our Solutions Engineering team](https://testkube.io/demo)** to get 
your license and answers to any questions you have.

A high-level deployment architecture for Testkube On-Prem is shown below.

:::tip
Check out Testkubes [Multi-Agent functionality](/articles/install/multi-agent) to learn how you can run your tests
in as many fixed and ephemeral cluster/namespaces as you need.
:::

![Deployment with single agent](../../img/architecture-default.jpeg)

:::tip
Check out [Helm Components](/articles/helm-components) to see all the actual components used by Testkube.
:::

## Cloud Control Plane

When using the Testkube Cloud Control Plane (available at https://app.testkube.io), the Control Plane is managed by the Testkube team, you only have to install the
Testkube Agent in your infrastructure wherever you want to run your tests.

A trial account will be required for evaluating the Cloud Control Plane - **[schedule time with our Solutions Engineering team](https://testkube.io/demo)** to get 
your account and answers to any questions you have.

Once onboarded, you will be prompted to create an initial Testkube Environment, which will provide you with the required CLI/Helm commands to
deploy the corresponding Testkube Agent in your infrastructure - [Read More](/testkube-pro/articles/environment-management#creating-a-new-environment)

A high-level deployment architecture for the Testkube Cloud Control Plane is shown below.

![Deployment with managed control plane](../../img/architecture-managed.jpeg)

:::info
Even when using the Testkube Cloud Control Plane, your actual tests are never run or stored on our servers, only test
logs and artifacts will be stored.
:::

## Standalone Agent

The Testkube Agent is Open Source and can be deployed without being connected to the Testkube
Control Plane. All management and test execution tasks are done through the [Testkube CLI](/articles/cli).

- Learn more about how to [deploy the Standalone Agent][deploy-standalone].

![Deployment with standalone agent](../../img/architecture-standalone.jpeg)

[cloud]: https://app.testkube.io/
[install-cli]: /articles/tutorial/quickstart/individual-evaluation
[install-helm]: /articles/install/install-with-helm
[deploy-standalone]: /articles/install/standalone-agent
[testkube-repo]: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube
