docs/articles/install/2-install-with-cli.mdx, before:

import CliInstallation from '../_cli_installation.mdx';

# Testkube On-Prem with CLI

This step-by-step tutorial provides you with a simplified Testkube On Prem installation that deploys both the Testkube Control Plane and Agent
within the same namespace. It does not create Ingress configuration as it is mainly designed for local installations that allow
you to quickly try out and evaluate the solution. It comes with a preconfigured admin account, Organization and Environment for running your tests.

## 1. Prerequisites

Before you can get started with the quickstart deployment, you will need the following:

- Access to a Kubernetes cluster.
- [The helm CLI][install-helm] to generate the required Kubernetes YAML configurations.
- [The kubectl CLI][install-kubectl] to run commands against Kubernetes clusters.
- The Testkube CLI for the quickstarter. For instructions, see the next section.

You will need to [request a trial license](https://testkube.io/download) that will be required during the installation process.

:::info
Using a license helps us ensure you have an optimal installation and product experience with Testkube.
Don’t worry, you won’t have to talk to a sales rep or enter any credit-card details to get going, but
if you need our help we’ll be much better prepared!
:::

## 2. Install the Testkube CLI

You can choose one of the following methods to install the CLI:

<CliInstallation/>

## 3. Run the Testkube Installer

The installer will complete these steps:

- Check if you have chosen the right Kubernetes environment.
- Ask for some information, such as the trial license requested as noted above.
- Install Testkubes Control Plane and Agent, both within the same namespace.

The whole process takes 3-5 minutes and can be started with the following command:

```bash
testkube init demo
```

Once installed, you will be asked if you want to `testkube dashboard` to conveniently access all relevant services on your localhost.
You can always execute this yourself afterward should you close this terminal after installation. The admin in this demo has
the following e-mail and password: `admin@example.com/password`.

Happy testing!

[install-kubectl]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/
[install-helm]: https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/
[install-oss]: /articles/install/standalone-agent

Commit message:

docs: added info about diagnostic tools

docs/articles/install/2-install-with-cli.mdx, after:

import CliInstallation from '../_cli_installation.mdx';

# Testkube On-Prem with CLI

This step-by-step tutorial provides you with a simplified Testkube On Prem installation that deploys both the Testkube Control Plane and Agent
within the same namespace. It does not create Ingress configuration as it is mainly designed for local installations that allow
you to quickly try out and evaluate the solution. It comes with a preconfigured admin account, Organization and Environment for running your tests.

## 1. Prerequisites

Before you can get started with the quickstart deployment, you will need the following:

- Access to a Kubernetes cluster.
- [The helm CLI][install-helm] to generate the required Kubernetes YAML configurations.
- [The kubectl CLI][install-kubectl] to run commands against Kubernetes clusters.
- The Testkube CLI for the quickstarter. For instructions, see the next section.

You will need to [request a trial license](https://testkube.io/download) that will be required during the installation process.

:::info
Using a license helps us ensure you have an optimal installation and product experience with Testkube.
Don’t worry, you won’t have to talk to a sales rep or enter any credit-card details to get going, but
if you need our help we’ll be much better prepared!
:::

## 2. Install the Testkube CLI

You can choose one of the following methods to install the CLI:

<CliInstallation/>

## 3. Run the Testkube Installer

The installer will complete these steps:

- Check if you have chosen the right Kubernetes environment.
- Ask for some information, such as the trial license requested as noted above.
- Install Testkubes Control Plane and Agent, both within the same namespace.

The whole process takes 3-5 minutes and can be started with the following command:

```bash
testkube init demo
```

Once installed, you will be asked if you want to `testkube dashboard` to conveniently access all relevant services on your localhost.
You can always execute this yourself afterward should you close this terminal after installation. The admin in this demo has
the following e-mail and password: `admin@example.com/password`.

:::info
In case of issues with license please try `testkube diag license` command for license validation.
:::

Happy testing!

[install-kubectl]: https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/tools/
[install-helm]: https://helm.sh/docs/intro/install/
[install-oss]: /articles/install/standalone-agent
