docs/articles/install/multi-agent.md, before:

# Multi-Agent Environments

Testube 2.X introduces the concept of Multi-Agent Environments, which adds two major new capabilities:

1. The ability to **run the same Workflow in multiple namespaces/clusters**, (possibly at the same time!).
2. The ability to easily **add ephemeral Runners** to an Environment and run your Test Workflows on them. 

The Multi-Agent functionality is available to any existing and new Testkube Environment, provided it has been
upgraded to the latest version of the Testkube Control Plane and Testkube Agent.

## Use Cases

Being able to connect multiple Agents to a single Testkube Environment unlocks several advanced usage scenarios, 
including:

- Execute the same set of tests across production, staging or testing environments to ensure consistent test execution.
- Execute the same set of tests in geographically dispersed environments to ensure consistent application behavior.
- Execute tests in local sandbox environments during development while having access to the centralized catalog of tests.
- Execute tests from multiple geographical locations against a (single) environment for realistic performance and e2e testing.
- Execute tests in ephemeral environments created during CI/CD pipelines for testing and deployment purposes - [Read More](/articles/ephemeral-environments).

## Runner Agents

In addition to the mandatory [Standalone Agent](#the-standalone-agent-in-multi-agent-environments), Testkube also allows you to add an arbitrary number of **Runner Agents** 
to any Environment from the [Agent Management](/testkube-pro/articles/agent-management) section of your Environment Settings or directly with the CLI (see below).

Runner Agents (or just "Runners") are lightweight agents that can be installed in any namespace/cluster where you need to
run your Testkube Workflows. Each Runner Agent has a name, a license type, an agent id, and an optional list of labels which
can be used to select Agents for execution:

![Multi-Agent Management](images/multi-agent-management.png)

:::note
Testkube Environments always require a Standalone Agent for core functionality - [Read More](#the-standalone-agent-in-multi-agent-environments).
:::

## Running Workflows on Runner Agents

Once Runner Agents have been added to an Environment, they can be used to execute your Workflows:

- Via the Dashboard as described at [Running a Workflow](/articles/testkube-dashboard-workflow-details#running-a-workflow).
- Via the CLI by using the `--target` argument for the `testkube run testworkflow` command (see below).

When a Workflow has been executed on multiple Runner Agents, the Dashboard provides an expandable section for the corresponding 
executions, see [Multi-agent Executions](/articles/testkube-dashboard-workflow-details#multi-agent-executions).

:::warning
Runner Agents do **not** support execution of legacy Tests and TestSuites.
:::

## Runner Agent Quickstart

### 1. Install your first Runner Agent

After installing the [Testkube CLI](/articles/cli) and using `testkube login` to log in to your 
Testkube Environment, use `testkube install runner <name> --create` command to install your first Runner Agent:

```sh
$ testkube install runner staging-runner --create 
```

This will create and install a Runner Agent named `staging-runner` that can now be used to run your Workflows. 

### 2. Run your Workflows 

Run your Workflows on a specific Runner Agent by specifying the name of the agent with the `--target` argument:

```sh
testkube run testworkflow my-k6-test --target name=staging-runner
```

This schedules the `my-k6-test` Workflow to run on the `staging-runner` Runner we created above.

:::tip
Check out the [Multi-Agent CLI Overview](/articles/multi-agent-cli) for an overview of all available CLI 
commands related to Multi-Agent Environments.
:::

## Runner Agent modes

Runner Agents can be created in one of three different modes, impacting how they are selected for execution:

- **Independent Runners** (default) need to be targeted explicitly by name to run a Workflow (as in the Getting Started above).
- **Grouped Runners** can be targeted/filtered by labels/groups - allowing you to run a Workflow on either a single available 
  Runner (of several) or on multiple Runners at once.
- **Global Runners** do not need to be targeted by name but can be filtered by labels, the default Standalone Agent works as a Global Runner.

:::note
If you need to change the type of Runner Agent, you'll need to remove it first and re-add with the new type.
:::

### Independent Runners

A Runner not defined as either Grouped or Global as described below, will work as an "Independent Runner" and thus
_needs_ to be targeted explicitly by name to for Workflow execution.

For example, the following command runs the `my-k6-test` Workflow on the Runner named `staging-runner`:

```sh
testkube run testworkflow my-k6-test --target name=staging-runner
```

Specifying multiple `--target name=XXX` arguments will run your Workflow on one of the selected runners, if you want to 
run on all of them use the `--target-replicate` argument [described below](#running-on-multiple-runners).

:::tip
Independent Runners are useful for ephemeral use-cases when you need to target specific Workflow Executions - [Read More](/articles/ephemeral-environments#multi-agent-approach).
:::

### Grouped Runners

Grouped Runners are defined by a `--group` argument when creating/installing:

```sh
# install grouped runner
$ testkube install runner staging-runner --create --group staging-runners
```

Grouped Runners _need_ to be either targeted by name (as the independent runners above), or by group, which will 
use any available Runner in that group for execution:

```sh
# run Workflow on an available Runner in the staging-runners group
testkube run testworkflow my-k6-test --target group=staging-runners
```

If you want to run on _all_ Runners in a group, use the `--target-replicate name` argument:

```sh
# run Workflow on all Runners in the staging-runners group
testkube run testworkflow my-k6-test --target group=staging-runners --target-replicate name
```

:::tip
You can use `--target-replicate` to enable execution across multiple runners as described [below](#running-on-multiple-runners). 
:::

### Global Runners

Global Runners are created with the `--global` argument:

```shell
# install Global Runner
$ testkube install runner global-runner --create --global 
```

Global runners will be used either when no target is specified to the run command or when a corresponding
label-filter (see below) applies to them.

```sh
# Run Workflow on an available Global Runner
testkube run testworkflow my-k6-test 
```

:::info 
The required Standalone Agent always works as a Global Runner.
:::

## Runner Targeting

Once you have created Runners in your Environment, you can select them both implicitly and explicitly when 
executing your Workflows. Selection of Runners can be done both at runtime when executing a 
Workflow via the CLI or Dashboard, or at design-time when defining Workflows, CronJobs, Triggers, etc.

### Using labels for Runner selection

Labels can be added to any type of Runner with the `-l <name=value>` argument during creation, these 
can then be used to filter out Runners that are used for execution:

```sh
# run Workflow on a Runner in the staging-runners group with the region=europe label
testkube run testworkflow my-k6-test --target group=staging-runners --target region=europe
```

```sh
# run Workflow on a Global Runner with the region=europe label
testkube run testworkflow my-k6-test --target region=europe
```

:::note
Since Independent Runners always need to be targeted by name, adding labels to them provides no added benefit
in regard to targeting/execution.
:::

### Running on Multiple Runners

If your target argument(s) selects multiple Runners as shown above, Testkube will by default execute your Workflow
on only _one_ of the selected Runners (randomly selected).

If you instead want to execute your Workflow on _all_ selected Runners simultaneously you can add `--target-replicate <label>` 
to the `testkube run testworkflow` command, which will "shard" the Workflow Execution across all unique matches for the 
specified `label` (which could be `name`). 

For example:

```
testkube run testworkflow my-k6-test --target name=runner1 --target name=runner2 --target-replicate=name
```

will run the specified Workflow on both Runners since their names are unique. 

A more advanced use-case: For Grouped Runners created with these arguments:

```
name=runner-1 group=my-group team=users
name=runner-2 group=my-group team=users
name=runner-3 group=my-group team=something
```

When executing a Workflow with

```
testkube run testworkflow my-k6-test --target group=my-group --target-replicate=team
```

This makes two groups, sharded by team:
- The `users` team: `name=runner-1 group=my-group team=users` and `name=runner-2 group=my-group team=users`
- The `something` team: `namerunner-=3 group=my-group team=something`

Because of that, the execution will be run twice:
- any (1) of: `name=runner-1 group=my-group team=users` and `name=runner-2 group=my-group team=users`
- any (1) of: `name=runner-3 group=my-group team=something`

### Targeting Runners in Testkube Resources

There are several situations where you might want to target specific Runners in your actual Testkube Resource
definitions:

- **Workflows** - you might want to ensure that a Workflow always runs on a Runner with a specific name or label - [Read More](/articles/test-workflows#runner-target).
- **Workflow CronJobs** - you might want to target scheduled Workflow Executions to specific Runner(s) - [Read More](/articles/test-workflows#targeting-specific-runners-in-cronjobs).
- **Workflow `execute` Steps** - you might want Composite Workflows to execute Workflows on specific Runner(s) - [Read More](/articles/test-workflows-test-suites#targeting-specific-runner-agents).
- **Triggers** - you might want Kubernetes Event Triggers to trigger Workflow Executions on specific Runner(s) - [Read More](/articles/test-triggers#targeting-specific-runners).
- **Execution CRDs** - you might want an `WorkflowExecution` CR to trigger Workflow Executions on specific Runner(s) - [Read More](/articles/test-executions#targeting-specific-runners).

Each of these definitions supports a corresponding `target` property:

```yaml
...
    target:
      match: [ <label>: <values> ]
      not: [ <label>: <values> ]
      replicate: [<labels>]
...
```

The following targets a specific Runner by name:

```yaml
...
    target:
      match:
        name:
          - staging-runner
...
```

or run on a Grouped Runner:

```yaml
...
    target:
      match:
        group:
          - region-us
...
```

Add `replicate` to mimic `--target-replicate` behavior described above, and `not` to exclude specific Runners, for example:

Run on all Runners in the `region-us` group, except the `k8s-1.21-spain` Runner:

```yaml
...
    target:
      match:
        group: [region-eu]
      not:
        name: [k8s-1.21-spain]
      replicate:
        - name
...
```

## Queuing of Workflow Executions

When requesting to run a Workflow on a specific Agent, either by name or label(s), and no
matching Agent is available, Testkube will queue the execution of the Workflow indefinitely; once a corresponding
Agent is available, the queued Workflow will be executed accordingly (barring Floating license restrictions [described below](#licensing-for-testkube-agents)).

You can abort queued executions using the corresponding [CLI Command](/cli/testkube-abort-testworkflowexecution) or from the Dashboard.

## The Standalone Agent in Multi-Agent Environments

Each Testkube Environment requires a **[Standalone Agent](standalone-agent)** which provides core functionality for Triggers, Webhooks, Prometheus metrics, etc.

Standalone Agents are installed when initially creating an Environment and shown on the bottom of the list of Agents with the label `runnertype: superagent`.

Standalone Agents work as a Global Runner (described above) and can also be explicitly targeted in several ways:

- By Label: `testkube run tw my-k6-test --target runnertype=superagent`
- By Name: `testkube run tw my-k6-test --target name=tkcenv_xxxxxxxxxx`
- By ID: `testkube run tw my-k6-test --target id=tkcroot_xxxxxxxxxx`

The ID is shown in the list of Agents (see below), the Name is the same `xxxx` prefixed with tkcenv instead.

![Standalone Agent ID](images/standalone-agent-id.png)

## Licensing for Testkube Agents

Testkube Agents can be assigned either Fixed or Floating licenses.

- Agents assigned a **Fixed License** can always run Workflows independently at any time.
  The Standalone Agent required for each Testkube Environment always requires a fixed license.
- Agents assigned a **Floating license** share the ability to execute Workflows concurrently; if one Agent with a floating license is executing a Workflow, 
  a second agent will queue Workflow executions until the first agent is complete. If you, for example, purchase two floating licenses and assign those 
  to 10 agents, two of those agents will be able to execute Workflows concurrently at any give time.

Floating licenses are useful for automated and/or [ephemeral use-cases](/articles/ephemeral-environments) where you don't know in advance how many agents 
you will have at any given point in time, and/or you don’t mind if your Workflow executions get queued.

### Assigning Licenses to Agents

Agents are by default assigned a fixed license (as in all the examples above), use the `--floating` argument with Agent
creation commands to instead assign a floating license, for example:

```sh
# install temporary Runner Agent using a floating license
$ testkube install runner pr-12u48y34-runner --create --floating
```

The Agent will be shown with the License Type "Floating" in the list of Agents:

![Floating Agent in Agent List](images/floating-agent-in-list.png)

### License Enforcement

The Agent limit for both Fixed and Floating Licenses is counted and enforced at the organization level, i.e., across all your
environments. Furthermore:

- The [Standalone Agent](#the-standalone-agent-in-multi-agent-environments) required for each Environment will always be assigned a Fixed license.
- You will only be able to create as many fixed Agents as you have Fixed licenses in your Testkube plan.
- You will need to have at least one Floating license in your Testkube plan to be able to create Agents with the `--floating` argument.

Please don't hesitate to [Get in Touch](https://testkube.io/contact) if you have any questions/concerns about licensing.

## Migrating existing Environments

If you have an existing Environment created before the Multi-Agent functionality was introduced, and that Environment already has Workflows being 
executed by CI/CD, CronJobs, Kubernetes Event Triggers, etc., these will continue to be executed on _any_ [Global Runner Agent](#global-runners) 
(including the required Standalone Agent) connected to your Environment unless you update the corresponding triggering commands/configuration 
to target a specific Runner Agent, either by name, group or label as [described above](/articles/install/multi-agent#runner-targeting).

:::info
Existing Environments that do not make the use of Runner Agents will continue to work as before, it is only
when you start adding additional Runner Agents that you might need to adjust how your existing Workflows are triggered by external sources.
:::

Commit message:

feat: add docs for specialized Runner Agent's Helm Chart (#285)

docs/articles/install/multi-agent.md, after:

# Multi-Agent Environments

Testube 2.X introduces the concept of Multi-Agent Environments, which adds two major new capabilities:

1. The ability to **run the same Workflow in multiple namespaces/clusters**, (possibly at the same time!).
2. The ability to easily **add ephemeral Runners** to an Environment and run your Test Workflows on them. 

The Multi-Agent functionality is available to any existing and new Testkube Environment, provided it has been
upgraded to the latest version of the Testkube Control Plane and Testkube Agent.

## Use Cases

Being able to connect multiple Agents to a single Testkube Environment unlocks several advanced usage scenarios, 
including:

- Execute the same set of tests across production, staging or testing environments to ensure consistent test execution.
- Execute the same set of tests in geographically dispersed environments to ensure consistent application behavior.
- Execute tests in local sandbox environments during development while having access to the centralized catalog of tests.
- Execute tests from multiple geographical locations against a (single) environment for realistic performance and e2e testing.
- Execute tests in ephemeral environments created during CI/CD pipelines for testing and deployment purposes - [Read More](/articles/ephemeral-environments).

## Runner Agents

In addition to the mandatory [Standalone Agent](#the-standalone-agent-in-multi-agent-environments), Testkube also allows you to add an arbitrary number of **Runner Agents** 
to any Environment from the [Agent Management](/testkube-pro/articles/agent-management) section of your Environment Settings or directly with the CLI (see below).

Runner Agents (or just "Runners") are lightweight agents that can be installed in any namespace/cluster where you need to
run your Testkube Workflows. Each Runner Agent has a name, a license type, an agent id, and an optional list of labels which
can be used to select Agents for execution:

![Multi-Agent Management](images/multi-agent-management.png)

:::note
Testkube Environments always require a Standalone Agent for core functionality - [Read More](#the-standalone-agent-in-multi-agent-environments).
:::

## Running Workflows on Runner Agents

Once Runner Agents have been added to an Environment, they can be used to execute your Workflows:

- Via the Dashboard as described at [Running a Workflow](/articles/testkube-dashboard-workflow-details#running-a-workflow).
- Via the CLI by using the `--target` argument for the `testkube run testworkflow` command (see below).

When a Workflow has been executed on multiple Runner Agents, the Dashboard provides an expandable section for the corresponding 
executions, see [Multi-agent Executions](/articles/testkube-dashboard-workflow-details#multi-agent-executions).

:::warning
Runner Agents do **not** support execution of legacy Tests and TestSuites.
:::

## Runner Agent Quickstart

### 1. Install your first Runner Agent

After installing the [Testkube CLI](/articles/cli) and using `testkube login` to log in to your 
Testkube Environment, use `testkube install runner <name> --create` command to install your first Runner Agent:

```sh
$ testkube install runner staging-runner --create 
```

This will create and install a Runner Agent named `staging-runner` that can now be used to run your Workflows.

:::tip
Alternatively, you can [install runner using Helm Charts](/articles/multi-agent-runner-helm-chart).
:::

### 2. Run your Workflows 

Run your Workflows on a specific Runner Agent by specifying the name of the agent with the `--target` argument:

```sh
testkube run testworkflow my-k6-test --target name=staging-runner
```

This schedules the `my-k6-test` Workflow to run on the `staging-runner` Runner we created above.

:::tip
Check out the [Multi-Agent CLI Overview](/articles/multi-agent-cli) for an overview of all available CLI 
commands related to Multi-Agent Environments.
:::

## Runner Agent modes

Runner Agents can be created in one of three different modes, impacting how they are selected for execution:

- **Independent Runners** (default) need to be targeted explicitly by name to run a Workflow (as in the Getting Started above).
- **Grouped Runners** can be targeted/filtered by labels/groups - allowing you to run a Workflow on either a single available 
  Runner (of several) or on multiple Runners at once.
- **Global Runners** do not need to be targeted by name but can be filtered by labels, the default Standalone Agent works as a Global Runner.

:::note
If you need to change the type of Runner Agent, you'll need to remove it first and re-add with the new type.
:::

### Independent Runners

A Runner not defined as either Grouped or Global as described below, will work as an "Independent Runner" and thus
_needs_ to be targeted explicitly by name to for Workflow execution.

For example, the following command runs the `my-k6-test` Workflow on the Runner named `staging-runner`:

```sh
testkube run testworkflow my-k6-test --target name=staging-runner
```

Specifying multiple `--target name=XXX` arguments will run your Workflow on one of the selected runners, if you want to 
run on all of them use the `--target-replicate` argument [described below](#running-on-multiple-runners).

:::tip
Independent Runners are useful for ephemeral use-cases when you need to target specific Workflow Executions - [Read More](/articles/ephemeral-environments#multi-agent-approach).
:::

### Grouped Runners

Grouped Runners are defined by a `--group` argument when creating/installing:

```sh
# install grouped runner
$ testkube install runner staging-runner --create --group staging-runners
```

Grouped Runners _need_ to be either targeted by name (as the independent runners above), or by group, which will 
use any available Runner in that group for execution:

```sh
# run Workflow on an available Runner in the staging-runners group
testkube run testworkflow my-k6-test --target group=staging-runners
```

If you want to run on _all_ Runners in a group, use the `--target-replicate name` argument:

```sh
# run Workflow on all Runners in the staging-runners group
testkube run testworkflow my-k6-test --target group=staging-runners --target-replicate name
```

:::tip
You can use `--target-replicate` to enable execution across multiple runners as described [below](#running-on-multiple-runners). 
:::

### Global Runners

Global Runners are created with the `--global` argument:

```shell
# install Global Runner
$ testkube install runner global-runner --create --global 
```

Global runners will be used either when no target is specified to the run command or when a corresponding
label-filter (see below) applies to them.

```sh
# Run Workflow on an available Global Runner
testkube run testworkflow my-k6-test 
```

:::info 
The required Standalone Agent always works as a Global Runner.
:::

## Runner Targeting

Once you have created Runners in your Environment, you can select them both implicitly and explicitly when 
executing your Workflows. Selection of Runners can be done both at runtime when executing a 
Workflow via the CLI or Dashboard, or at design-time when defining Workflows, CronJobs, Triggers, etc.

### Using labels for Runner selection

Labels can be added to any type of Runner with the `-l <name=value>` argument during creation, these 
can then be used to filter out Runners that are used for execution:

```sh
# run Workflow on a Runner in the staging-runners group with the region=europe label
testkube run testworkflow my-k6-test --target group=staging-runners --target region=europe
```

```sh
# run Workflow on a Global Runner with the region=europe label
testkube run testworkflow my-k6-test --target region=europe
```

:::note
Since Independent Runners always need to be targeted by name, adding labels to them provides no added benefit
in regard to targeting/execution.
:::

### Running on Multiple Runners

If your target argument(s) selects multiple Runners as shown above, Testkube will by default execute your Workflow
on only _one_ of the selected Runners (randomly selected).

If you instead want to execute your Workflow on _all_ selected Runners simultaneously you can add `--target-replicate <label>` 
to the `testkube run testworkflow` command, which will "shard" the Workflow Execution across all unique matches for the 
specified `label` (which could be `name`). 

For example:

```
testkube run testworkflow my-k6-test --target name=runner1 --target name=runner2 --target-replicate=name
```

will run the specified Workflow on both Runners since their names are unique. 

A more advanced use-case: For Grouped Runners created with these arguments:

```
name=runner-1 group=my-group team=users
name=runner-2 group=my-group team=users
name=runner-3 group=my-group team=something
```

When executing a Workflow with

```
testkube run testworkflow my-k6-test --target group=my-group --target-replicate=team
```

This makes two groups, sharded by team:
- The `users` team: `name=runner-1 group=my-group team=users` and `name=runner-2 group=my-group team=users`
- The `something` team: `namerunner-=3 group=my-group team=something`

Because of that, the execution will be run twice:
- any (1) of: `name=runner-1 group=my-group team=users` and `name=runner-2 group=my-group team=users`
- any (1) of: `name=runner-3 group=my-group team=something`

### Targeting Runners in Testkube Resources

There are several situations where you might want to target specific Runners in your actual Testkube Resource
definitions:

- **Workflows** - you might want to ensure that a Workflow always runs on a Runner with a specific name or label - [Read More](/articles/test-workflows#runner-target).
- **Workflow CronJobs** - you might want to target scheduled Workflow Executions to specific Runner(s) - [Read More](/articles/test-workflows#targeting-specific-runners-in-cronjobs).
- **Workflow `execute` Steps** - you might want Composite Workflows to execute Workflows on specific Runner(s) - [Read More](/articles/test-workflows-test-suites#targeting-specific-runner-agents).
- **Triggers** - you might want Kubernetes Event Triggers to trigger Workflow Executions on specific Runner(s) - [Read More](/articles/test-triggers#targeting-specific-runners).
- **Execution CRDs** - you might want an `WorkflowExecution` CR to trigger Workflow Executions on specific Runner(s) - [Read More](/articles/test-executions#targeting-specific-runners).

Each of these definitions supports a corresponding `target` property:

```yaml
...
    target:
      match: [ <label>: <values> ]
      not: [ <label>: <values> ]
      replicate: [<labels>]
...
```

The following targets a specific Runner by name:

```yaml
...
    target:
      match:
        name:
          - staging-runner
...
```

or run on a Grouped Runner:

```yaml
...
    target:
      match:
        group:
          - region-us
...
```

Add `replicate` to mimic `--target-replicate` behavior described above, and `not` to exclude specific Runners, for example:

Run on all Runners in the `region-us` group, except the `k8s-1.21-spain` Runner:

```yaml
...
    target:
      match:
        group: [region-eu]
      not:
        name: [k8s-1.21-spain]
      replicate:
        - name
...
```

## Queuing of Workflow Executions

When requesting to run a Workflow on a specific Agent, either by name or label(s), and no
matching Agent is available, Testkube will queue the execution of the Workflow indefinitely; once a corresponding
Agent is available, the queued Workflow will be executed accordingly (barring Floating license restrictions [described below](#licensing-for-testkube-agents)).

You can abort queued executions using the corresponding [CLI Command](/cli/testkube-abort-testworkflowexecution) or from the Dashboard.

## The Standalone Agent in Multi-Agent Environments

Each Testkube Environment requires a **[Standalone Agent](standalone-agent)** which provides core functionality for Triggers, Webhooks, Prometheus metrics, etc.

Standalone Agents are installed when initially creating an Environment and shown on the bottom of the list of Agents with the label `runnertype: superagent`.

Standalone Agents work as a Global Runner (described above) and can also be explicitly targeted in several ways:

- By Label: `testkube run tw my-k6-test --target runnertype=superagent`
- By Name: `testkube run tw my-k6-test --target name=tkcenv_xxxxxxxxxx`
- By ID: `testkube run tw my-k6-test --target id=tkcroot_xxxxxxxxxx`

The ID is shown in the list of Agents (see below), the Name is the same `xxxx` prefixed with tkcenv instead.

![Standalone Agent ID](images/standalone-agent-id.png)

## Licensing for Testkube Agents

Testkube Agents can be assigned either Fixed or Floating licenses.

- Agents assigned a **Fixed License** can always run Workflows independently at any time.
  The Standalone Agent required for each Testkube Environment always requires a fixed license.
- Agents assigned a **Floating license** share the ability to execute Workflows concurrently; if one Agent with a floating license is executing a Workflow, 
  a second agent will queue Workflow executions until the first agent is complete. If you, for example, purchase two floating licenses and assign those 
  to 10 agents, two of those agents will be able to execute Workflows concurrently at any give time.

Floating licenses are useful for automated and/or [ephemeral use-cases](/articles/ephemeral-environments) where you don't know in advance how many agents 
you will have at any given point in time, and/or you don’t mind if your Workflow executions get queued.

### Assigning Licenses to Agents

Agents are by default assigned a fixed license (as in all the examples above), use the `--floating` argument with Agent
creation commands to instead assign a floating license, for example:

```sh
# install temporary Runner Agent using a floating license
$ testkube install runner pr-12u48y34-runner --create --floating
```

The Agent will be shown with the License Type "Floating" in the list of Agents:

![Floating Agent in Agent List](images/floating-agent-in-list.png)

### License Enforcement

The Agent limit for both Fixed and Floating Licenses is counted and enforced at the organization level, i.e., across all your
environments. Furthermore:

- The [Standalone Agent](#the-standalone-agent-in-multi-agent-environments) required for each Environment will always be assigned a Fixed license.
- You will only be able to create as many fixed Agents as you have Fixed licenses in your Testkube plan.
- You will need to have at least one Floating license in your Testkube plan to be able to create Agents with the `--floating` argument.

Please don't hesitate to [Get in Touch](https://testkube.io/contact) if you have any questions/concerns about licensing.

## Migrating existing Environments

If you have an existing Environment created before the Multi-Agent functionality was introduced, and that Environment already has Workflows being 
executed by CI/CD, CronJobs, Kubernetes Event Triggers, etc., these will continue to be executed on _any_ [Global Runner Agent](#global-runners) 
(including the required Standalone Agent) connected to your Environment unless you update the corresponding triggering commands/configuration 
to target a specific Runner Agent, either by name, group or label as [described above](/articles/install/multi-agent#runner-targeting).

:::info
Existing Environments that do not make the use of Runner Agents will continue to work as before, it is only
when you start adding additional Runner Agents that you might need to adjust how your existing Workflows are triggered by external sources.
:::
