docs/articles/examples/create-your-own-examples.mdx, before:

# Custom Test Workflow Examples

This guide shows two ways to publish your own Test Workflow Templates so they appear in the Dashboard wizard and can be reused across teams.

- Use kubectl for quick, ad-hoc rollout by a platform team.
- Use a small Helm chart to version and ship a curated catalog of templates.

> See the Examples & Guides catalog and Workflow Templates docs for built‑in templates.

## Prerequisite: show Official Templates in the Wizard

If you also want the built‑in templates to be created and visible in the wizard, make sure the Helm values include:

```yaml
global:
  testWorkflows:
    createOfficialTemplates: true
```

This flag belongs to the Testkube chart values and is applied during install/upgrade.

## Option A: Apply a template with kubectl

1) Create a `TestWorkflowTemplate` with the required labels so it shows up in the wizard:

### Required Labels and Wizard Mapping

The Testkube Dashboard wizard uses specific labels to organize and display templates:

- **`testkube.io/name`**: The display name shown on the template card in the wizard. Must be a valid Kubernetes label (no spaces, use hyphens or underscores).
- **`testkube.io/wizard: enabled`**: Makes the template visible in the Dashboard wizard. Without this label, the template won't appear in the UI.

**Optional annotations** that enhance the template card:
- **`testkube.io/categories`**: Groups templates in the wizard (e.g., "Load & Performance", "API Testing", "Samples")
- **`testkube.io/description`**: Short description shown on the template card
- **`testkube.io/icon`**: Icon identifier for the template (e.g., "artillery", "postman")
- **`testkube.io/image`**: Container image shown as example
- **`testkube.io/example`**: YAML snippet shown in the template preview
- **`testkube.io/example-path`**: Path to example file in the template

```yaml title="sample--echo--v1.yaml"
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestWorkflowTemplate
metadata:
  name: sample--echo--v1
  labels:
    testkube.io/name: Echo-Sample   # must be a valid label (no spaces)
    testkube.io/wizard: enabled
  annotations:
    testkube.io/categories: Samples
    testkube.io/description: Minimal echo step
spec:
  steps:
  - name: Echo-hello
    run:
      image: alpine:3.20
      shell: echo hello
```

2) Apply it in the same namespace where Testkube is installed:

```bash
kubectl apply -n <your-namespace> -f sample--echo--v1.yaml
```

- The template will be visible in the wizard with the display name from `testkube.io/name`.
- Optional annotations that improve the card: `testkube.io/icon`, `testkube.io/image`, `testkube.io/example`, `testkube.io/example-path`.

## Option B: Package templates in a Helm chart

Use this when you want to version, enable/disable, and roll out templates via GitOps/Helm.

### 1) Chart layout
```
my-custom-templates/
  Chart.yaml
  values.yaml
  templates/
    templates.yaml
```

### 2) Example `values.yaml`
```yaml
templates:
  - name: sample--curl--v1
    displayName: Curl-Sample
    category: Samples
    description: Simple HTTP GET
    image: curlimages/curl:8.9.1
    shell: curl -sS https://example.com | head -n 1
    enabled: true
```

### 3) `templates/templates.yaml`
```yaml
{{- range .Values.templates }}
{{- if .enabled }}
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestWorkflowTemplate
metadata:
  name: {{ .name }}
  labels:
    testkube.io/name: {{ .displayName }}
    testkube.io/wizard: enabled
  annotations:
    helm.sh/hook: post-install,post-upgrade
    helm.sh/hook-weight: "30"
    helm.sh/hook-delete-policy: hook-failed,before-hook-creation
    testkube.io/categories: {{ .category | quote }}
    testkube.io/description: {{ .description | quote }}
spec:
  steps:
  - name: Run-curl
    run:
      image: {{ .image }}
      shell: {{ .shell | quote }}
---
{{- end }}
{{- end }}
```

The Helm hooks ensure templates are created after install/upgrade of this chart.

### 4) Install in your Testkube namespace
```bash
helm upgrade --install my-templates ./my-custom-templates -n <your-namespace> --wait
```

After installation, the new templates appear in the Dashboard under the Templates wizard.

---

### Verify
- Dashboard → Test Workflow Templates: you should see the new cards (e.g. Echo-Sample, Curl-Sample).
- CLI: `kubectl get testworkflowtemplates -n <your-namespace>` should list your resources.

Commit message:

docs(examples): address PR feedback and improve template documentation
- Change 'Examples' to 'Templates' in title and sidebar for better clarity
- Remove createOfficialTemplates section (enabled by default, not needed)
- Improve explanation of testkube.io/example and testkube.io/example-path annotations
- Clarify that example content is copyable and paths are accessible as /path in UI

Addresses feedback from tkonieczny on naming, prerequisites, and annotation usage.

docs/articles/examples/create-your-own-examples.mdx, after:

# Custom Test Workflow Templates

This guide shows two ways to publish your own Test Workflow Templates so they appear in the Dashboard wizard and can be reused across teams.

- Use kubectl for quick, ad-hoc rollout by a platform team.
- Use a small Helm chart to version and ship a curated catalog of templates.

> See the Examples & Guides catalog and Workflow Templates docs for built‑in templates.

## Option A: Apply a template with kubectl

1) Create a `TestWorkflowTemplate` with the required labels so it shows up in the wizard:

### Required Labels and Wizard Mapping

The Testkube Dashboard wizard uses specific labels to organize and display templates:

- **`testkube.io/name`**: The display name shown on the template card in the wizard. Must be a valid Kubernetes label (no spaces, use hyphens or underscores).
- **`testkube.io/wizard: enabled`**: Makes the template visible in the Dashboard wizard. Without this label, the template won't appear in the UI.

**Optional annotations** that enhance the template card:
- **`testkube.io/categories`**: Groups templates in the wizard (e.g., "Load & Performance", "API Testing", "Samples")
- **`testkube.io/description`**: Short description shown on the template card
- **`testkube.io/icon`**: Icon identifier for the template (e.g., "artillery", "postman")
- **`testkube.io/image`**: Container image shown as example
- **`testkube.io/example`**: YAML snippet shown in the template preview (users can copy this content)
- **`testkube.io/example-path`**: Path to example file within the template (accessible as `/path` in the UI)

```yaml title="sample--echo--v1.yaml"
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestWorkflowTemplate
metadata:
  name: sample--echo--v1
  labels:
    testkube.io/name: Echo-Sample   # must be a valid label (no spaces)
    testkube.io/wizard: enabled
  annotations:
    testkube.io/categories: Samples
    testkube.io/description: Minimal echo step
spec:
  steps:
  - name: Echo-hello
    run:
      image: alpine:3.20
      shell: echo hello
```

2) Apply it in the same namespace where Testkube is installed:

```bash
kubectl apply -n <your-namespace> -f sample--echo--v1.yaml
```

- The template will be visible in the wizard with the display name from `testkube.io/name`.
- Optional annotations that improve the card: `testkube.io/icon`, `testkube.io/image`, `testkube.io/example`, `testkube.io/example-path`.

## Option B: Package templates in a Helm chart

Use this when you want to version, enable/disable, and roll out templates via GitOps/Helm.

### 1) Chart layout
```
my-custom-templates/
  Chart.yaml
  values.yaml
  templates/
    templates.yaml
```

### 2) Example `values.yaml`
```yaml
templates:
  - name: sample--curl--v1
    displayName: Curl-Sample
    category: Samples
    description: Simple HTTP GET
    image: curlimages/curl:8.9.1
    shell: curl -sS https://example.com | head -n 1
    enabled: true
```

### 3) `templates/templates.yaml`
```yaml
{{- range .Values.templates }}
{{- if .enabled }}
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestWorkflowTemplate
metadata:
  name: {{ .name }}
  labels:
    testkube.io/name: {{ .displayName }}
    testkube.io/wizard: enabled
  annotations:
    helm.sh/hook: post-install,post-upgrade
    helm.sh/hook-weight: "30"
    helm.sh/hook-delete-policy: hook-failed,before-hook-creation
    testkube.io/categories: {{ .category | quote }}
    testkube.io/description: {{ .description | quote }}
spec:
  steps:
  - name: Run-curl
    run:
      image: {{ .image }}
      shell: {{ .shell | quote }}
---
{{- end }}
{{- end }}
```

The Helm hooks ensure templates are created after install/upgrade of this chart.

### 4) Install in your Testkube namespace
```bash
helm upgrade --install my-templates ./my-custom-templates -n <your-namespace> --wait
```

After installation, the new templates appear in the Dashboard under the Templates wizard.

---

### Verify
- Dashboard → Test Workflow Templates: you should see the new cards (e.g. Echo-Sample, Curl-Sample).
- CLI: `kubectl get testworkflowtemplates -n <your-namespace>` should list your resources.
