docs/articles/examples/overview.mdx, before:

# Testkube Examples and Guides

This section gives examples on how to create Workflows for the most common Testing tools - if you're missing
something please let us know on our [Slack Channel](https://bit.ly/testkube-slack)!

## Load & Performance Testing

- K6
  - [Basic](k6-basic) - Shows how to run a simple k6 test.
  - [Distributed](k6-distributed) - Shows how to distribute a K6 test across multiple nodes.
  - [Testkube K6 Introduction](https://testkube.io/blog/load-testing-in-kubernetes-with-k6-and-testkube) (external)
  - [Testkube vs K6 Operator](https://testkube.io/learn/comparing-the-k6-operator-vs-testkube-for-load-testing) (external)
  - [Generating Massive Load](https://testkube.io/learn/a-guide-to-scalable-and-heavy-load-testing-with-k6-and-testkube) (external)
- JMeter
  - [Basic](jmeter-basic) - Show how to run a simple JMeter test.
  - [Distributed](jmeter-distributed) - Shows how to run a JMeter test with remote workers.
  - [Plugins](jmeter-plugins) - Shows how to use JMeter plugins.
- [Gatling](gatling-basic) - Shows how to run a basic Gatling load-test.
- [Artillery](artillery-basic) - Shows how to run a basic Artillery test.
- Locust
  - [Locust](locust-basic) - Show how to run a simple Locust test.
  - [Distributed](locust-distributed) - Shows how to run a Locust test with remote workers.

## E2E / UI / Acceptance Testing

- Playwright
  - [Basic](playwright-basic) - Shows how to run a Playwright test.
  - [Sharded](playwright-sharded) - Shows how to distribute a Playwright test across multiple nodes for sharded test execution.
- Cypress
  - [Basic](cypress-basic) - Shows how to run a Cypress test.
  - [Sharded](cypress-sharded) - Shows how to distribute a Cypress test across multiple nodes for sharded test execution.
  - [Scaling Cypress Tests](https://testkube.io/learn/scaling-cypress-tests-parallelise-your-end-to-end-tests-with-testkube) (external)
- Selenium
  - [Basic](selenium-basic) - Shows how to run a Selenium test with Maven against the Chrome WebDriver Engine.
  - [Advanced](selenium-advanced) - Shows how to run a Selenium test with Maven and 3 browser engines; chrome, edge and firefox.
  - [Functional Testing with Selenium](https://testkube.io/learn/functional-testing-with-selenium-in-testkube) (external)
- Robot Framework
  - [Basic](robot-framework-basic) - Shows how to run a basic Robot Framework test.
  - [Parallelized](robot-framework-parallel) - shows how to run a Robot Framework test in parallel for 3 browsers.
  - [Automated Acceptance Testing](https://testkube.io/learn/automated-acceptance-testing-with-robot-framework-and-testkube) (external)

## API Testing

- Postman
  - [Basic](postman-basic) - Shows how to run API tests in a Postman Collection.
  - [API Test Automation with Postman](https://testkube.io/learn/functional-testing-with-selenium-in-testkube) (external)
- [SoapUI](soapui-basic) - Shows how to run API tests in a SoapUI Project.
- [REST Assured](rest-assured-basic) - Shows how to run a basic REST Assured test with Gradle.
- [cURL](curl-basic) - Shows how to run cURL commands as tests.

## Testing Frameworks

- [Maven](maven-basic) - Shows how to run Maven tests.
- [Gradle](gradle-basic) - Shows how to run Gradle tests.
- [NUnit](nunit-basic) - Shows how to run NUnit tests.
- Pytest
  - [Basic](pytest-basic) - Shows how to run tests with the Pytest framework.
  - [Pytest and Testkube](https://testkube.io/learn/testing-kubernetes-applications-with-pytest-and-testkube-a-complete-guide) (external)
- [Cucumber](https://testkube.io/learn/simplify-bdd-testing-for-distributed-java-applications-with-testkube) (external)

## Miscellaneous

- [TestContainers](test-containers-basic) - Shows how to configure a Workflow that uses TestContainers for container dependencies.
- [Hardware Testing](https://testkube.io/blog/implementing-kubernetes-native-hardware-testing-with-testkube) - Shows how to test hardware infrastructure in your Kubernetes Cluster.
- [Testing a Sample Application](/articles/tutorial/example) - Shows how to run tests on a sample application with a three-tier architecture.

Commit message:

Added loop example and kubectl example

docs/articles/examples/overview.mdx, after:

# Testkube Examples and Guides

This section gives examples on how to create Workflows for the most common Testing tools - if you're missing
something please let us know on our [Slack Channel](https://bit.ly/testkube-slack)!

## Load & Performance Testing

- K6
  - [Basic](k6-basic) - Shows how to run a simple k6 test.
  - [Distributed](k6-distributed) - Shows how to distribute a K6 test across multiple nodes.
  - [Testkube K6 Introduction](https://testkube.io/blog/load-testing-in-kubernetes-with-k6-and-testkube) (external)
  - [Testkube vs K6 Operator](https://testkube.io/learn/comparing-the-k6-operator-vs-testkube-for-load-testing) (external)
  - [Generating Massive Load](https://testkube.io/learn/a-guide-to-scalable-and-heavy-load-testing-with-k6-and-testkube) (external)
- JMeter
  - [Basic](jmeter-basic) - Show how to run a simple JMeter test.
  - [Distributed](jmeter-distributed) - Shows how to run a JMeter test with remote workers.
  - [Plugins](jmeter-plugins) - Shows how to use JMeter plugins.
- [Gatling](gatling-basic) - Shows how to run a basic Gatling load-test.
- [Artillery](artillery-basic) - Shows how to run a basic Artillery test.
- Locust
  - [Locust](locust-basic) - Show how to run a simple Locust test.
  - [Distributed](locust-distributed) - Shows how to run a Locust test with remote workers.

## E2E / UI / Acceptance Testing

- Playwright
  - [Basic](playwright-basic) - Shows how to run a Playwright test.
  - [Sharded](playwright-sharded) - Shows how to distribute a Playwright test across multiple nodes for sharded test execution.
- Cypress
  - [Basic](cypress-basic) - Shows how to run a Cypress test.
  - [Sharded](cypress-sharded) - Shows how to distribute a Cypress test across multiple nodes for sharded test execution.
  - [Scaling Cypress Tests](https://testkube.io/learn/scaling-cypress-tests-parallelise-your-end-to-end-tests-with-testkube) (external)
- Selenium
  - [Basic](selenium-basic) - Shows how to run a Selenium test with Maven against the Chrome WebDriver Engine.
  - [Advanced](selenium-advanced) - Shows how to run a Selenium test with Maven and 3 browser engines; chrome, edge and firefox.
  - [Functional Testing with Selenium](https://testkube.io/learn/functional-testing-with-selenium-in-testkube) (external)
- Robot Framework
  - [Basic](robot-framework-basic) - Shows how to run a basic Robot Framework test.
  - [Parallelized](robot-framework-parallel) - shows how to run a Robot Framework test in parallel for 3 browsers.
  - [Automated Acceptance Testing](https://testkube.io/learn/automated-acceptance-testing-with-robot-framework-and-testkube) (external)

## API Testing

- Postman
  - [Basic](postman-basic) - Shows how to run API tests in a Postman Collection.
  - [API Test Automation with Postman](https://testkube.io/learn/functional-testing-with-selenium-in-testkube) (external)
- [SoapUI](soapui-basic) - Shows how to run API tests in a SoapUI Project.
- [REST Assured](rest-assured-basic) - Shows how to run a basic REST Assured test with Gradle.
- [cURL](curl-basic) - Shows how to run cURL commands as tests.

## Testing Frameworks

- [Maven](maven-basic) - Shows how to run Maven tests.
- [Gradle](gradle-basic) - Shows how to run Gradle tests.
- [NUnit](nunit-basic) - Shows how to run NUnit tests.
- Pytest
  - [Basic](pytest-basic) - Shows how to run tests with the Pytest framework.
  - [Pytest and Testkube](https://testkube.io/learn/testing-kubernetes-applications-with-pytest-and-testkube-a-complete-guide) (external)
- [Cucumber](https://testkube.io/learn/simplify-bdd-testing-for-distributed-java-applications-with-testkube) (external)

## Miscellaneous

- [TestContainers](test-containers-basic) - Shows how to configure a Workflow that uses TestContainers for container dependencies.
- [Kubectl Commands](kubectl-basic) - Shows how to run kubectl commands from within Test Workflows for cluster operations and validation.
- [Hardware Testing](https://testkube.io/blog/implementing-kubernetes-native-hardware-testing-with-testkube) - Shows how to test hardware infrastructure in your Kubernetes Cluster.
- [Testing a Sample Application](/articles/tutorial/example) - Shows how to run tests on a sample application with a three-tier architecture.
