docs/testkube-pro/articles/organization-management.md, before:

# Organization Management

To manage your organization settings click "Manage Organization" from organizations drop-down menu:

![Organization Settings](../../img/org-settings.png)

You can also create new organization. 

## Organization Settings

To edit your organization settings, click an organization from the available options from menu on the left.

### Environments

In the environments section you can see the list of your existing environments.

![Existing Environments](../../img/existing-environments.png)

GREEN status means that your agent is connected successfully. 

In the case of a RED status, you can try to debug the issues with the command below:

```sh
testkube agent debug
```

Run this on your cluster where the given agent is installed.

Read more about [Environment Management](environment-management)

### Settings

In settings you can remove your organization. Keep in mind that this operation can't be rolled back!

![Delete Organization](../../img/delete-org.png)


### Members

For each organization you can define who has access and what kind of actions each member can use. 

![Organization Members](../../img/org-members.png)


There are 4 types of organization members: 

* `owner` - Has access to all environments and organization settings, also can access billing details.
* `admin` - Has access to all environments and organization settings.
* `biller` - Has access to billing details only.
* `member` - Has limited access to environments, access is defined by the roles assigned to given member. Member by default doesn't have any access, you need to [explicitly set it in the given environment](environment-management.md).

### Usage & Billing

#### Upgrading Testkube to the `PRO` Plan

![PRO Plan Billing](../../img/pro-plan-billing.png)

#### `Free` Plan Usage 

All limits are calculated monthly. On the 'Free' plan, you have: 
- 600 executions 
- 2 environments
- 2GB artifacts storage
- 3 Users

![Free Plan](../../img/free-plan.png)

#### `PRO` Plan Usage

Subscribing to the `PRO` plan provides: 
- 5000 test executions
- **Unlimited** environments
- **128GB** of artifacts storage
- **25** users

If you need more - just use Testkube - and you'll be charged for additional usage.
For pricing details, visit your subscription by clicking the "Manage subscription" button. 

![Manage Subcriptions](../../img/manage-subscriptions.png)

Commit message:

added missing links and updated billing docs

docs/testkube-pro/articles/organization-management.md, after:

# Organization Management

To manage your organization settings click "Manage Organization" from organizations drop-down menu:

![Organization Settings](../../img/org-settings.png)

You can also create new organization. 

## Organization Settings

To edit your organization settings, click an organization from the available options from menu on the left.

### Environments

In the environments section you can see the list of your existing environments.

![Existing Environments](../../img/existing-environments.png)

GREEN status means that your agent is connected successfully. 

In the case of a RED status, you can try to debug the issues with the command below:

```sh
testkube agent debug
```

Run this on your cluster where the given agent is installed.

Read more about [Environment Management](environment-management)

### Settings

In settings you can remove your organization. Keep in mind that this operation can't be rolled back!

![Delete Organization](../../img/delete-org.png)


### Members

For each organization you can define who has access and what kind of actions each member can use. 

![Organization Members](../../img/org-members.png)


There are 4 types of organization members: 

* `owner` - Has access to all environments and organization settings, also can access billing details.
* `admin` - Has access to all environments and organization settings.
* `biller` - Has access to billing details only.
* `member` - Has limited access to environments, access is defined by the roles assigned to given member. Member by default doesn't have any access, you need to [explicitly set it in the given environment](environment-management.md).

### Usage & Billing

This section shows your current usage against the limits of your current plan.

![Usage Limits](../../img/usage-billing.png)

If you are using the cloud version of Testkube you can also upgrade your plan here and purchase 
extra environments and users - see [Pricing](https://testkube.io/pricing) for the current pricing model

![Upgrade plan](../../img/upgrade-plan.png)
