docs/test-types/executor-pytest.mdx, before:

# Pytest

This is a simple python based executor for pytest framework https://docs.pytest.org/
You can run pytest with Testkube to use it in your automated tests for your Kubernetes clusters.

## Usage
Before starting, please switch your current folder to /contrib/container/pytest

### Step 1 - Add the executor to Testkube.

```sh
`kubectl apply -f container-executor-pytest.yaml`
```

### Step 2 - Build the executor Docker image.

Current Docker image is based on Python 3.8.17 and a few basic modules, like pipenv, pytest and requests.
Feel free to change the python version, install missing dependencies, etc. Docker image should be placed in your 
favourite docker image registry, like local Docker image registry for Minikube, Kind, etc or Cloud provider one.

```sh
docker build -t pytest-executor -f Dockerfile
```

### Step 3 - Create a test.

```sh 
kubectl apply -f pytest_test.yaml
```

And now run the tests to see failed and passed results.

```sh
`kubectl testkube run test container-executor-pytest-failed-sample`
```

```sh
`kubectl testkube run test container-executor-pytest-passed-sample`
```

Commit message:

Add warning to legacy features docs
with a link to current documentation.

docs/test-types/executor-pytest.mdx, after:

# Pytest

:::warning
The features described in this document are being deprecated. You can find more details about the current Testkube features to perform these functions [here](../articles/legacy-features.md).
:::


This is a simple python based executor for pytest framework https://docs.pytest.org/
You can run pytest with Testkube to use it in your automated tests for your Kubernetes clusters.

## Usage
Before starting, please switch your current folder to /contrib/container/pytest

### Step 1 - Add the executor to Testkube.

```sh
`kubectl apply -f container-executor-pytest.yaml`
```

### Step 2 - Build the executor Docker image.

Current Docker image is based on Python 3.8.17 and a few basic modules, like pipenv, pytest and requests.
Feel free to change the python version, install missing dependencies, etc. Docker image should be placed in your 
favourite docker image registry, like local Docker image registry for Minikube, Kind, etc or Cloud provider one.

```sh
docker build -t pytest-executor -f Dockerfile
```

### Step 3 - Create a test.

```sh 
kubectl apply -f pytest_test.yaml
```

And now run the tests to see failed and passed results.

```sh
`kubectl testkube run test container-executor-pytest-failed-sample`
```

```sh
`kubectl testkube run test container-executor-pytest-passed-sample`
```
