docs/test-types/executor-artillery.mdx, before:

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import Admonition from "@theme/Admonition";

# Artillery.io

The Artillery executor allows you to run Artillery tests with Testkube.

- Default command for this executor: `artillery`
- Default arguments for this executor command: `run` `<runPath>` `--dotenv` `<envFile>` `-o` `<reportFile>`

Parameters in `<>` are calculated at test execution:

- `<runPath>` - The directory containing the cloned Git repository.
- `<envFile>` - `.env` file location, will be built from variables.
- `<reportFile>` - The path to the generated report called `test-report.json`.

[See more at "Redefining the Prebuilt Executor Command and Arguments" on the Creating Test page.](../articles/creating-tests.md#redefining-the-prebuilt-executor-command-and-arguments)

export const ExecutorInfo = () => {
  return (
    <div>
      <Admonition type="info" icon="🎓" title="What is Artillery?">
        <ul>
          <li>
            <a href="https://www.artillery.io/">Artillery.io</a> is an
            open-source performance testing toolkit used primarily to perform
            cloud-scale load testing.
          </li>
          <li>
            Artillery is designed to be both straightforward in configuration
            (YAML files), and powerful.
          </li>
        </ul>
      </Admonition>
    </div>
  );
};

<ExecutorInfo />

## **Test Environment**

Let's assume that our SUT (Service Under Test) is an internal Kubernetes service which has
ClusterIP `Service` created and is exposed on port `8088`. The service name is `testkube-api-server`
and is exposing the `/health` endpoint that we want to test.

To call the SUT inside a cluster:

```bash
curl http://testkube-api-server:8088/health
```

Output:

```bash
200 OK
```

## **Create a Test Manifest**

The Artillery tests are defined in declarative manner, as YAML files.  
The test should warm up our service a little bit first, then we can hit a little harder.

Let's save our test into `test.yaml` file with the content below:

```yaml
config:
  target: "http://testkube-api-server:8088"
  phases:
    - duration: 6
      arrivalRate: 5
      name: Warm up
    - duration: 120
      arrivalRate: 5
      rampTo: 50
      name: Ramp up load
    - duration: 60
      arrivalRate: 50
      name: Sustained load
scenarios:
  - name: "Check health endpoint"
    flow:
      - get:
          url: "/health"
```

Our test is ready, but how do we run it in a Kubernetes cluster? Testkube will help you with that!

Let's create a new Testkube test based on the saved Artillery test definition.

## Create a New Testkube Test

If you want to upload a test file directly (like in this example) you can use Dashboard, or CLI - depending on your preferences.

<Tabs groupId="dashboard-cli">
<TabItem value="dash" label="Dashboard">

If you prefer to use the Dashboard, just go to Tests, and click the `Add a new test` button. Then you need to fill in the test Name, choose the test Type (`artillery/test`), Test Source (`File`, which allow you to upload specific file), and choose the File.
![Container executor creation dialog](../img/dashboard-create-artillery-api-test.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="cli" label="CLI">

If you prefer using the CLI instead, you can create the test with `testkube create test`.
You need to set the test:

- `--name` (for example, `artillery-api-test`)
- `--type` (in this case `artillery/test`)
- `--file` which is a path to your test file (in this case `test.yaml`)

```bash
testkube create test --name artillery-api-test --type artillery/test --file test.yaml
```

Output:

```bash
Test created  🥇
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Running a Test

```bash
$ testkube run test artillery-api-test
Type:              artillery/test
Name:              artillery-api-test
Execution ID:      63ee9ca6872e05f0ea790d73
Execution name:    artillery-api-test-1
Execution number:  1
Status:            running
Start time:        2023-02-16 21:14:14.451905194 +0000 UTC
End time:          0001-01-01 00:00:00 +0000 UTC
Duration:



Test execution started
Watch test execution until complete:
$ kubectl testkube watch execution artillery-api-test-1


Use following command to get test execution details:
$ kubectl testkube get execution artillery-api-test-1
```

You can also watch your test results in real-time with `-f` flag (like "follow").

Test runs can be named. If no name is passed, Testkube will autogenerate a name.

## Getting Test Results

Let's get back our finished test results. The test report and output will be stored in Testkube storage to revisit when necessary.

```bash
testkube get execution artillery-api-test-1
ID:         63ee9cd8872e05f0ea790d76
Name:       artillery-api-test-1
Number:            1
Test name:         artillery-api-test
Type:              artillery/test
Status:            passed
Start time:        2023-02-16 21:15:04.979 +0000 UTC
End time:          2023-02-16 21:18:19.463 +0000 UTC
Duration:          00:03:14

...
... (long output)
...

All VUs finished. Total time: 3 minutes, 7 seconds

--------------------------------
Summary report @ 21:18:16(+0000)
--------------------------------

http.codes.200: ................................................................ 6330
http.request_rate: ............................................................. 33/sec
http.requests: ................................................................. 6330
http.response_time:
  min: ......................................................................... 0
  max: ......................................................................... 11
  median: ...................................................................... 0
  p95: ......................................................................... 1
  p99: ......................................................................... 2
http.responses: ................................................................ 6330
vusers.completed: .............................................................. 6330
vusers.created: ................................................................ 6330
vusers.created_by_name.Check health endpoint: .................................. 6330
vusers.failed: ................................................................. 0
vusers.session_length:
  min: ......................................................................... 0.9
  max: ......................................................................... 25.6
  median: ...................................................................... 1.3
  p95: ......................................................................... 3.3
  p99: ......................................................................... 9.5
Log file: /tmp/test-report.json


Test execution completed with success in 3m14.484s 🥇

```

## Additional examples

Additional Artillery examples can be found in the Testkube repository [here](https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube/blob/main/test/artillery/executor-smoke/).

Commit message:

Add warning to legacy features docs
with a link to current documentation.

docs/test-types/executor-artillery.mdx, after:

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";
import Admonition from "@theme/Admonition";

# Artillery.io

:::warning
The features described in this document are being deprecated. You can find more details about the current Testkube features to perform these functions [here](../articles/legacy-features.md).
:::


The Artillery executor allows you to run Artillery tests with Testkube.

- Default command for this executor: `artillery`
- Default arguments for this executor command: `run` `<runPath>` `--dotenv` `<envFile>` `-o` `<reportFile>`

Parameters in `<>` are calculated at test execution:

- `<runPath>` - The directory containing the cloned Git repository.
- `<envFile>` - `.env` file location, will be built from variables.
- `<reportFile>` - The path to the generated report called `test-report.json`.

[See more at "Redefining the Prebuilt Executor Command and Arguments" on the Creating Test page.](../articles/creating-tests.md#redefining-the-prebuilt-executor-command-and-arguments)

export const ExecutorInfo = () => {
  return (
    <div>
      <Admonition type="info" icon="🎓" title="What is Artillery?">
        <ul>
          <li>
            <a href="https://www.artillery.io/">Artillery.io</a> is an
            open-source performance testing toolkit used primarily to perform
            cloud-scale load testing.
          </li>
          <li>
            Artillery is designed to be both straightforward in configuration
            (YAML files), and powerful.
          </li>
        </ul>
      </Admonition>
    </div>
  );
};

<ExecutorInfo />

## **Test Environment**

Let's assume that our SUT (Service Under Test) is an internal Kubernetes service which has
ClusterIP `Service` created and is exposed on port `8088`. The service name is `testkube-api-server`
and is exposing the `/health` endpoint that we want to test.

To call the SUT inside a cluster:

```bash
curl http://testkube-api-server:8088/health
```

Output:

```bash
200 OK
```

## **Create a Test Manifest**

The Artillery tests are defined in declarative manner, as YAML files.  
The test should warm up our service a little bit first, then we can hit a little harder.

Let's save our test into `test.yaml` file with the content below:

```yaml
config:
  target: "http://testkube-api-server:8088"
  phases:
    - duration: 6
      arrivalRate: 5
      name: Warm up
    - duration: 120
      arrivalRate: 5
      rampTo: 50
      name: Ramp up load
    - duration: 60
      arrivalRate: 50
      name: Sustained load
scenarios:
  - name: "Check health endpoint"
    flow:
      - get:
          url: "/health"
```

Our test is ready, but how do we run it in a Kubernetes cluster? Testkube will help you with that!

Let's create a new Testkube test based on the saved Artillery test definition.

## Create a New Testkube Test

If you want to upload a test file directly (like in this example) you can use Dashboard, or CLI - depending on your preferences.

<Tabs groupId="dashboard-cli">
<TabItem value="dash" label="Dashboard">

If you prefer to use the Dashboard, just go to Tests, and click the `Add a new test` button. Then you need to fill in the test Name, choose the test Type (`artillery/test`), Test Source (`File`, which allow you to upload specific file), and choose the File.
![Container executor creation dialog](../img/dashboard-create-artillery-api-test.png)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="cli" label="CLI">

If you prefer using the CLI instead, you can create the test with `testkube create test`.
You need to set the test:

- `--name` (for example, `artillery-api-test`)
- `--type` (in this case `artillery/test`)
- `--file` which is a path to your test file (in this case `test.yaml`)

```bash
testkube create test --name artillery-api-test --type artillery/test --file test.yaml
```

Output:

```bash
Test created  🥇
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Running a Test

```bash
$ testkube run test artillery-api-test
Type:              artillery/test
Name:              artillery-api-test
Execution ID:      63ee9ca6872e05f0ea790d73
Execution name:    artillery-api-test-1
Execution number:  1
Status:            running
Start time:        2023-02-16 21:14:14.451905194 +0000 UTC
End time:          0001-01-01 00:00:00 +0000 UTC
Duration:



Test execution started
Watch test execution until complete:
$ kubectl testkube watch execution artillery-api-test-1


Use following command to get test execution details:
$ kubectl testkube get execution artillery-api-test-1
```

You can also watch your test results in real-time with `-f` flag (like "follow").

Test runs can be named. If no name is passed, Testkube will autogenerate a name.

## Getting Test Results

Let's get back our finished test results. The test report and output will be stored in Testkube storage to revisit when necessary.

```bash
testkube get execution artillery-api-test-1
ID:         63ee9cd8872e05f0ea790d76
Name:       artillery-api-test-1
Number:            1
Test name:         artillery-api-test
Type:              artillery/test
Status:            passed
Start time:        2023-02-16 21:15:04.979 +0000 UTC
End time:          2023-02-16 21:18:19.463 +0000 UTC
Duration:          00:03:14

...
... (long output)
...

All VUs finished. Total time: 3 minutes, 7 seconds

--------------------------------
Summary report @ 21:18:16(+0000)
--------------------------------

http.codes.200: ................................................................ 6330
http.request_rate: ............................................................. 33/sec
http.requests: ................................................................. 6330
http.response_time:
  min: ......................................................................... 0
  max: ......................................................................... 11
  median: ...................................................................... 0
  p95: ......................................................................... 1
  p99: ......................................................................... 2
http.responses: ................................................................ 6330
vusers.completed: .............................................................. 6330
vusers.created: ................................................................ 6330
vusers.created_by_name.Check health endpoint: .................................. 6330
vusers.failed: ................................................................. 0
vusers.session_length:
  min: ......................................................................... 0.9
  max: ......................................................................... 25.6
  median: ...................................................................... 1.3
  p95: ......................................................................... 3.3
  p99: ......................................................................... 9.5
Log file: /tmp/test-report.json


Test execution completed with success in 3m14.484s 🥇

```

## Additional examples

Additional Artillery examples can be found in the Testkube repository [here](https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube/blob/main/test/artillery/executor-smoke/).
