docs/test-types/executor-maven.md, before:

import Admonition from "@theme/Admonition";

# Maven

Testkube allows you to run Maven-based tasks which could be also tests. For example, we can easily run JUnit tests in Testkube now.

* Default command for this executor: `mvn`
* Default arguments for this executor command: `--settings` `<settingsFile>` `<goalName>` `-Duser.home` `<mavenHome>`

Parameters in `<>` are calculated at test execution:

* `<settingsFile>` - Will be calculated based on the contents of the `--variables-file` argument; when missing, this will be skipped.
* `<goalName>` - Will be set to `test` if the test type is `maven/test`, `integration-test` in the case of `maven/integration-test`, and it will be empty on test type `maven/project`.
* `<mavenHome>` - Will be set to `/home/maven`, unless the user of the image has been changed.

[See more at "Redefining the Prebuilt Executor Command and Arguments" on the Creating Test page.](../articles/creating-tests.md#redefining-the-prebuilt-executor-command-and-arguments)

export const ExecutorInfo = () => {
   return (
    <div>
      <Admonition type="info" icon="🎓" title="What is Maven?">
        <ul>
          <li>Maven is a build automation tool used primarily for Java projects.</li>
          <li>Paired with JUnit, a testing framework that is built in the Maven project format, you can build and run unit tests for your projects.</li>
        </ul>
      </Admonition>
    </div>
  );
}

<ExecutorInfo />

## Test Environment

We'll try to add a simple JUnit test to our cluster and run it. Testkube Maven Executor handles `mvn` and `mvnw` binaries.
Because Maven projects are quite complicated in terms of directory structure. We'll need to load them from a Git directory.

You can find example projects in the repository here: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube-executor-maven/tree/main/examples.

Let's create a simple test which will check if an env variable is set to true: 
```java
package hello.maven;

import org.junit.jupiter.api.Test;
import static org.junit.jupiter.api.Assertions.*;

class LibraryTest {
    @Test void someLibraryMethodReturnsTrue() {
        String env = System.getenv("TESTKUBE_MAVEN");
        assertTrue(Boolean.parseBoolean(env), "TESTKUBE_MAVEN env should be true");
    }
}
```


The default Maven executor: 

```yaml
apiVersion: executor.testkube.io/v1
kind: Executor
metadata:
  name: maven-executor
  namespace: testkube
spec:
  image: kubeshop/testkube-maven-executor:0.1.4
  types:
  - maven/project
  - maven/test
  - maven/integration-test 
```

As we can see, there are several types. The Maven executor handles the second part after `/` as a task name, so `maven/test` will run `mvn test` and so on. 

One exception from this rule is `project` which is a generic one and forces you to pass additional arguments during test execution. For example:

```bash
kubectl testkube run maven-example-project --args='runMyCustomTask' 
```


## Create a New Maven-based Test

```bash
kubectl testkube create test --git-uri https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube-executor-maven.git --git-path examples/hello-maven --type maven/test --name maven-example-test --git-branch main
```

Unless the `kubectl testkube run test maven-example-test...` does not overwrite it, this is equal to creating the following command in the `hello-maven` folder:

```sh
$ mvn test -Duser.home /home/maven 
```

## Running a Test

Let's pass the env variable to our test run:

```bash
kubectl testkube run test maven-example-test -f -v TESTKUBE_MAVEN=true

# ...... after some time

Test execution completed with success in 16.555s 🥇

Watch the test execution until complete:
$ kubectl testkube watch execution 62d148db0260f256c1a1e993


Use the following command to get test execution details:
$ kubectl testkube get execution 62d148db0260f256c1a1e993
```

## Getting Test Results

Now we can watch/get test execution details:

```bash
kubectl testkube get execution 62d148db0260f256c1a1e993
```

Output:

```bash
# ....... a lot of Maven logs

Downloaded from central: https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/org/junit/platform/junit-platform-launcher/1.7.2/junit-platform-launcher-1.7.2.pom (3.0 kB at 121 kB/s)
[INFO] 
[INFO] -------------------------------------------------------
[INFO]  T E S T S
[INFO] -------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] Running hello.maven.LibraryTest
[INFO] Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0, Time elapsed: 0.052 s - in hello.maven.LibraryTest
[INFO] 
[INFO] Results:
[INFO] 
[INFO] Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0
[INFO] 
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] BUILD SUCCESS
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] Total time:  9.851 s
[INFO] Finished at: 2022-07-18T09:06:15Z
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Status Test execution completed with success 🥇
```

## Using Different Commands and Arguments

Updating the commands and arguments is possible on both test and execution level.

As an example, during a debug session, you could pass `pwd` in as the command in order to find out the current path:

```sh
kubectl testkube run test maven-example-test --command "pwd" --args-mode "override" --args "-L"
```

If you check the execution logs, you will see that the path "/data/repo" is printed out. No Gradle command will be executed in this case, but you will notice that the rest of the preparations, like cloning the repo, have been done.

## Using Different JDKs 

In the Java world, usually you want to have control over your Runtime environment. Testkube can easily handle that for you! 
We're building several Java images to handle constraints which Maven can put in its build file.

To use a different executor you can use one of our pre-built ones (for Java 8,11,17,18) or build your own Docker image based on a Maven executor.

Let's assume we need JDK18 for our test runs. To handle that issue, create a new Maven executor:

content of `maven-jdk18-executor.yaml`
```yaml
apiVersion: executor.testkube.io/v1
kind: Executor
metadata:
  name: maven-jdk18-executor
  namespace: testkube
spec:
  image: kubeshop/testkube-maven-executor:0.1.0-jdk18   # <-- we're building jdk
  types:
  - maven:jdk18/project # <-- just create different test type with naming convention "framework:version/type"
  - maven:jdk18/test
  - maven:jdk18/integration-test 
```

> Tip: Look for recent executor versions here https://hub.docker.com/repository/registry-1.docker.io/kubeshop/testkube-maven-executor/tags?page=1&ordering=last_updated.


And add it to your cluster: 
```bash
kubectl apply -f maven-jdk18-executor.yaml 
```

Now, create a new test with a type which our new executor can handle e.g.: `maven:jdk18/test`

```bash 
 # create test
 kubectl testkube create test --git-uri https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube-executor-maven.git --git-path examples/hello-maven-jdk18 --type maven:jdk18/test --name maven-jdk18-example-test --git-branch main

# and run it
kubectl testkube run test maven-jdk18-example-test -f -v TESTKUBE_MAVEN=true
```


## Summary

Testkube simplifies running Java tests based on Maven and simplifies the merging of Java based tests into your global testing ecosystem.

Commit message:

Add warning to legacy features docs
with a link to current documentation.

docs/test-types/executor-maven.md, after:

import Admonition from "@theme/Admonition";

# Maven

:::warning
The features described in this document are being deprecated. You can find more details about the current Testkube features to perform these functions [here](../articles/legacy-features.md).
:::


Testkube allows you to run Maven-based tasks which could be also tests. For example, we can easily run JUnit tests in Testkube now.

* Default command for this executor: `mvn`
* Default arguments for this executor command: `--settings` `<settingsFile>` `<goalName>` `-Duser.home` `<mavenHome>`

Parameters in `<>` are calculated at test execution:

* `<settingsFile>` - Will be calculated based on the contents of the `--variables-file` argument; when missing, this will be skipped.
* `<goalName>` - Will be set to `test` if the test type is `maven/test`, `integration-test` in the case of `maven/integration-test`, and it will be empty on test type `maven/project`.
* `<mavenHome>` - Will be set to `/home/maven`, unless the user of the image has been changed.

[See more at "Redefining the Prebuilt Executor Command and Arguments" on the Creating Test page.](../articles/creating-tests.md#redefining-the-prebuilt-executor-command-and-arguments)

export const ExecutorInfo = () => {
   return (
    <div>
      <Admonition type="info" icon="🎓" title="What is Maven?">
        <ul>
          <li>Maven is a build automation tool used primarily for Java projects.</li>
          <li>Paired with JUnit, a testing framework that is built in the Maven project format, you can build and run unit tests for your projects.</li>
        </ul>
      </Admonition>
    </div>
  );
}

<ExecutorInfo />

## Test Environment

We'll try to add a simple JUnit test to our cluster and run it. Testkube Maven Executor handles `mvn` and `mvnw` binaries.
Because Maven projects are quite complicated in terms of directory structure. We'll need to load them from a Git directory.

You can find example projects in the repository here: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube-executor-maven/tree/main/examples.

Let's create a simple test which will check if an env variable is set to true: 
```java
package hello.maven;

import org.junit.jupiter.api.Test;
import static org.junit.jupiter.api.Assertions.*;

class LibraryTest {
    @Test void someLibraryMethodReturnsTrue() {
        String env = System.getenv("TESTKUBE_MAVEN");
        assertTrue(Boolean.parseBoolean(env), "TESTKUBE_MAVEN env should be true");
    }
}
```


The default Maven executor: 

```yaml
apiVersion: executor.testkube.io/v1
kind: Executor
metadata:
  name: maven-executor
  namespace: testkube
spec:
  image: kubeshop/testkube-maven-executor:0.1.4
  types:
  - maven/project
  - maven/test
  - maven/integration-test 
```

As we can see, there are several types. The Maven executor handles the second part after `/` as a task name, so `maven/test` will run `mvn test` and so on. 

One exception from this rule is `project` which is a generic one and forces you to pass additional arguments during test execution. For example:

```bash
kubectl testkube run maven-example-project --args='runMyCustomTask' 
```


## Create a New Maven-based Test

```bash
kubectl testkube create test --git-uri https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube-executor-maven.git --git-path examples/hello-maven --type maven/test --name maven-example-test --git-branch main
```

Unless the `kubectl testkube run test maven-example-test...` does not overwrite it, this is equal to creating the following command in the `hello-maven` folder:

```sh
$ mvn test -Duser.home /home/maven 
```

## Running a Test

Let's pass the env variable to our test run:

```bash
kubectl testkube run test maven-example-test -f -v TESTKUBE_MAVEN=true

# ...... after some time

Test execution completed with success in 16.555s 🥇

Watch the test execution until complete:
$ kubectl testkube watch execution 62d148db0260f256c1a1e993


Use the following command to get test execution details:
$ kubectl testkube get execution 62d148db0260f256c1a1e993
```

## Getting Test Results

Now we can watch/get test execution details:

```bash
kubectl testkube get execution 62d148db0260f256c1a1e993
```

Output:

```bash
# ....... a lot of Maven logs

Downloaded from central: https://repo.maven.apache.org/maven2/org/junit/platform/junit-platform-launcher/1.7.2/junit-platform-launcher-1.7.2.pom (3.0 kB at 121 kB/s)
[INFO] 
[INFO] -------------------------------------------------------
[INFO]  T E S T S
[INFO] -------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] Running hello.maven.LibraryTest
[INFO] Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0, Time elapsed: 0.052 s - in hello.maven.LibraryTest
[INFO] 
[INFO] Results:
[INFO] 
[INFO] Tests run: 1, Failures: 0, Errors: 0, Skipped: 0
[INFO] 
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] BUILD SUCCESS
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------
[INFO] Total time:  9.851 s
[INFO] Finished at: 2022-07-18T09:06:15Z
[INFO] ------------------------------------------------------------------------

Status Test execution completed with success 🥇
```

## Using Different Commands and Arguments

Updating the commands and arguments is possible on both test and execution level.

As an example, during a debug session, you could pass `pwd` in as the command in order to find out the current path:

```sh
kubectl testkube run test maven-example-test --command "pwd" --args-mode "override" --args "-L"
```

If you check the execution logs, you will see that the path "/data/repo" is printed out. No Gradle command will be executed in this case, but you will notice that the rest of the preparations, like cloning the repo, have been done.

## Using Different JDKs 

In the Java world, usually you want to have control over your Runtime environment. Testkube can easily handle that for you! 
We're building several Java images to handle constraints which Maven can put in its build file.

To use a different executor you can use one of our pre-built ones (for Java 8,11,17,18) or build your own Docker image based on a Maven executor.

Let's assume we need JDK18 for our test runs. To handle that issue, create a new Maven executor:

content of `maven-jdk18-executor.yaml`
```yaml
apiVersion: executor.testkube.io/v1
kind: Executor
metadata:
  name: maven-jdk18-executor
  namespace: testkube
spec:
  image: kubeshop/testkube-maven-executor:0.1.0-jdk18   # <-- we're building jdk
  types:
  - maven:jdk18/project # <-- just create different test type with naming convention "framework:version/type"
  - maven:jdk18/test
  - maven:jdk18/integration-test 
```

> Tip: Look for recent executor versions here https://hub.docker.com/repository/registry-1.docker.io/kubeshop/testkube-maven-executor/tags?page=1&ordering=last_updated.


And add it to your cluster: 
```bash
kubectl apply -f maven-jdk18-executor.yaml 
```

Now, create a new test with a type which our new executor can handle e.g.: `maven:jdk18/test`

```bash 
 # create test
 kubectl testkube create test --git-uri https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube-executor-maven.git --git-path examples/hello-maven-jdk18 --type maven:jdk18/test --name maven-jdk18-example-test --git-branch main

# and run it
kubectl testkube run test maven-jdk18-example-test -f -v TESTKUBE_MAVEN=true
```


## Summary

Testkube simplifies running Java tests based on Maven and simplifies the merging of Java based tests into your global testing ecosystem.
