docs/test-types/executor-kubent.mdx, before:

# Kube no trouble

Kube No Trouble (kubent) is a simple tool to check whether you're using any of these API versions in your cluster and therefore should upgrade your workloads first, before upgrading your Kubernetes cluster.

You can run kubent with Testkube to use it in your automated tests for your Kubernetes clusters.

## Usage

### Step 1 - Add the executor to Testkube

```sh
testkube create executor --name kubent-executor --types kubent
--image ghcr.io/doitintl/kube-no-trouble:latest
```

### Step 2 - Add ServiceAccount for kubent

kubent needs to be able to list all the resources in the cluster. To do that, you need to create a ServiceAccount and a ClusterRoleBinding for it.

```yaml title="kubent-sa.yaml"
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: kubent
  namespace: testkube
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: kubent-reader
  namespace: testkube
rules:
- apiGroups: ["*"]
  resources: ["*"]
  verbs: ["get", "list"]
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: kubent-read-everything
  namespace: testkube
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: kubent
  namespace: testkube
roleRef:
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: kubent-reader
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
```

```sh
kubectl apply -f kubent-sa.yaml
```

### Step 3 - Update the Job Template to include the Service ServiceAccount

Testkube allows you to override the Job template that will be used to run the tests. You can use this to add the ServiceAccount to the Job.

```yaml title="job-template.yaml"
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
metadata: 
  name: "{{ .Name }}"
  namespace: "{{ .Namespace }}"
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      serviceAccountName: kubent
      containers:
        - name: "{{ .Name }}"
          image: "{{ .Image }}"
```

```sh
testkube update executor --name kubent-executor --job-template job-template.yaml
```

### Step 4 - Create a test

```sh 
testkube create test --name kubent-test --type kubent
```

And now run the test to see if you're using any of the deprecated API versions.

```sh
testkube run test kubent-test
```

If you look at the logs of the Job, you should see something like this:

```sh
$ testkube watch execution kubent-test-1

Getting logs from test job 64820fce90a243e72062576c
5:28PM INF Target K8s version is 1.27.1
5:28PM INF Retrieved 6 resources from collector name=Cluster
5:28PM INF Retrieved 69 resources from collector name="Helm v3"
5:28PM INF Loaded ruleset name=custom.rego.tmpl
5:28PM INF Loaded ruleset name=deprecated-1-16.rego
5:28PM INF Loaded ruleset name=deprecated-1-22.rego
5:28PM INF Loaded ruleset name=deprecated-1-25.rego
5:28PM INF Loaded ruleset name=deprecated-1-26.rego
5:28PM INF Loaded ruleset name=deprecated-future.rego

.
Use following command to get test execution details:
$ kubectl testkube get execution 64820fce90a243e72062576c
```

Commit message:

Add warning to legacy features docs
with a link to current documentation.

docs/test-types/executor-kubent.mdx, after:

# Kube No Trouble

:::warning
The features described in this document are being deprecated. You can find more details about the current Testkube features to perform these functions [here](../articles/legacy-features.md).
:::


Kube No Trouble (kubent) is a simple tool to check whether you're using any of these API versions in your cluster and therefore should upgrade your workloads first, before upgrading your Kubernetes cluster.

You can run kubent with Testkube to use it in your automated tests for your Kubernetes clusters.

## Usage

### Step 1 - Add the executor to Testkube

```sh
testkube create executor --name kubent-executor --types kubent
--image ghcr.io/doitintl/kube-no-trouble:latest
```

### Step 2 - Add ServiceAccount for kubent

kubent needs to be able to list all the resources in the cluster. To do that, you need to create a ServiceAccount and a ClusterRoleBinding for it.

```yaml title="kubent-sa.yaml"
apiVersion: v1
kind: ServiceAccount
metadata:
  name: kubent
  namespace: testkube
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRole
metadata:
  name: kubent-reader
  namespace: testkube
rules:
- apiGroups: ["*"]
  resources: ["*"]
  verbs: ["get", "list"]
---
apiVersion: rbac.authorization.k8s.io/v1
kind: ClusterRoleBinding
metadata:
  name: kubent-read-everything
  namespace: testkube
subjects:
- kind: ServiceAccount
  name: kubent
  namespace: testkube
roleRef:
  kind: ClusterRole
  name: kubent-reader
  apiGroup: rbac.authorization.k8s.io
```

```sh
kubectl apply -f kubent-sa.yaml
```

### Step 3 - Update the Job Template to include the Service ServiceAccount

Testkube allows you to override the Job template that will be used to run the tests. You can use this to add the ServiceAccount to the Job.

```yaml title="job-template.yaml"
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
metadata: 
  name: "{{ .Name }}"
  namespace: "{{ .Namespace }}"
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      restartPolicy: Never
      serviceAccountName: kubent
      containers:
        - name: "{{ .Name }}"
          image: "{{ .Image }}"
```

```sh
testkube update executor --name kubent-executor --job-template job-template.yaml
```

### Step 4 - Create a test

```sh 
testkube create test --name kubent-test --type kubent
```

And now run the test to see if you're using any of the deprecated API versions.

```sh
testkube run test kubent-test
```

If you look at the logs of the Job, you should see something like this:

```sh
$ testkube watch execution kubent-test-1

Getting logs from test job 64820fce90a243e72062576c
5:28PM INF Target K8s version is 1.27.1
5:28PM INF Retrieved 6 resources from collector name=Cluster
5:28PM INF Retrieved 69 resources from collector name="Helm v3"
5:28PM INF Loaded ruleset name=custom.rego.tmpl
5:28PM INF Loaded ruleset name=deprecated-1-16.rego
5:28PM INF Loaded ruleset name=deprecated-1-22.rego
5:28PM INF Loaded ruleset name=deprecated-1-25.rego
5:28PM INF Loaded ruleset name=deprecated-1-26.rego
5:28PM INF Loaded ruleset name=deprecated-future.rego

.
Use following command to get test execution details:
$ kubectl testkube get execution 64820fce90a243e72062576c
```
