docs/index.mdx, before:

import DocCard from "../src/theme/DocCard";
import clsx from "clsx";

# Welcome to the Testkube Documentation!

We're happy you're here to become a Testkube aficionado!

## Getting Started

export const DocCardList = (input) => (
  <section className={clsx("row indent--min")}>
    {[
      {
        icon: "🛠",
        label: "Quickstart",
        description:
          "Get up and running by installing Testkube within minutes.",
        href: "/articles/tutorial/quickstart",
        type: "intro",
      },
      {
        icon: "🏎💨",
        label: "Run your first Test",
        description:
          "Learn how to create, run, and display the results for your first Test Workflow.",
        href: "/articles/tutorial/quickstart#3-defining-your-first-test-workflow",
        type: "intro",
      },
      {
        icon: "🚀",
        label: "Connect to your CI/CD",
        description:
          "Trigger the execution of your tests from your existing CI/CD pipeline.",
        href: "/articles/tutorial/quickstart#6-integrate-within-your-pipeline",
        type: "intro",
      },
    ].map((item, i) => (
      <article key={i} className="col padding--sm intro__card">
        <DocCard item={item} />
      </article>
    ))}
  </section>
);

<DocCardList />

## What is Testkube?

Testkube is a Test Orchestration and Execution Framework powered by Kubernetes. It provides a single
platform for defining, running and analyzing test executions, using your existing testing tools/scripts,
running in your existing infrastructure.

Testkube consists of a **Control Plane** and any number of **Testkube Agents**. The Control Plane exposes
a **Dashboard** for easy and centralized access to most Testkube features.

- The Control Plane can be running either in the cloud or on-prem - [Read more](articles/install/deployment-architectures).
- The Agents run your tests and are _always_ running in your own infrastructure.
- The Agent is 100% Open Source and can also be run standalone without the Control Plane - [Read more](articles/open-source-or-pro).

## Learn More About Testkube

Once you're up to speed and running your first tests, dive in and learn more about Testkube!

export const LearnCardList = (input) => (
  <section className={clsx("row indent--min")}>
    {[
      {
        icon: "🛠",
        label: "Core Concepts",
        description:
          "Learn about Testkube Core Concepts and how it fits into the Software Testing Lifecycle (STLC).",
        href: "/articles/testing-pipeline",
        type: "intro",
      },
      {
        icon: "🛠",
        label: "Using Testkube",
        description:
          "Learn about Workflows, Templates, Triggers, Results and Reporting to get the most of Testkubes features.",
        href: "/articles/using-testkube",
        type: "intro",
      },
      {
        icon: "🛠",
        label: "Examples & Guides",
        description:
          "See example Workflows for your favorite testing tools and learn how to integrate Testkube into your infrastructure.",
        href: "/articles/examples/overview",
        type: "intro",
      },
    ].map((item, i) => (
      <article key={i} className="col padding--sm intro__card">
        <DocCard item={item} />
      </article>
    ))}
  </section>
);

<LearnCardList />

export const LearnMoreCardList = (input) => (
  <section className={clsx("row indent--min")}>
    {[
      {
        icon: "🛠",
        label: "Integrations",
        description:
          "Learn how Testkube integrates into your existing infrastructure via dedicate Plugins, " +
          "Kubernetes Events, Webhooks, CDEvents, etc.",
        href: "/articles/integrations",
        type: "intro",
      },
      {
        icon: "🛠",
        label: "Reference Docs",
        description:
          "Get into the nitty-gritty of Helm Charts, OpenAPI definitions and CLI commands",
        href: "/articles/reference",
        type: "intro",
      },
      {
        icon: "🛠",
        label: "Open Source",
        description:
          "Learn about the Testkube Agent which is 100% Open Source and can run Standalone.",
        href: "/articles/open-source-or-pro",
        type: "intro",
      },
    ].map((item, i) => (
      <article key={i} className="col padding--sm intro__card">
        <DocCard item={item} />
      </article>
    ))}
  </section>
);

<LearnMoreCardList />

Commit message:

Add Getting Started Video
To docs welcome page.

docs/index.mdx, after:

import DocCard from "../src/theme/DocCard";
import clsx from "clsx";

# Welcome to the Testkube Documentation!

We're happy you're here to become a Testkube aficionado!

Watch our Getting Started video to see Testkube in action:

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://youtube.com/embed/7q0wR-skW8M" title="Getting Started with Testkube" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Getting Started

export const DocCardList = (input) => (
  <section className={clsx("row indent--min")}>
    {[
      {
        icon: "🛠",
        label: "Quickstart",
        description:
          "Get up and running by installing Testkube within minutes.",
        href: "/articles/tutorial/quickstart",
        type: "intro",
      },
      {
        icon: "🏎💨",
        label: "Run your first Test",
        description:
          "Learn how to create, run, and display the results for your first Test Workflow.",
        href: "/articles/tutorial/quickstart#3-defining-your-first-test-workflow",
        type: "intro",
      },
      {
        icon: "🚀",
        label: "Connect to your CI/CD",
        description:
          "Trigger the execution of your tests from your existing CI/CD pipeline.",
        href: "/articles/tutorial/quickstart#6-integrate-within-your-pipeline",
        type: "intro",
      },
    ].map((item, i) => (
      <article key={i} className="col padding--sm intro__card">
        <DocCard item={item} />
      </article>
    ))}
  </section>
);

<DocCardList />

## What is Testkube?

Testkube is a Test Orchestration and Execution Framework powered by Kubernetes. It provides a single
platform for defining, running and analyzing test executions, using your existing testing tools/scripts,
running in your existing infrastructure.

Testkube consists of a **Control Plane** and any number of **Testkube Agents**. The Control Plane exposes
a **Dashboard** for easy and centralized access to most Testkube features.

- The Control Plane can be running either in the cloud or on-prem - [Read more](articles/install/deployment-architectures).
- The Agents run your tests and are _always_ running in your own infrastructure.
- The Agent is 100% Open Source and can also be run standalone without the Control Plane - [Read more](articles/open-source-or-pro).

## Learn More About Testkube

Once you're up to speed and running your first tests, dive in and learn more about Testkube!

export const LearnCardList = (input) => (
  <section className={clsx("row indent--min")}>
    {[
      {
        icon: "🛠",
        label: "Core Concepts",
        description:
          "Learn about Testkube Core Concepts and how it fits into the Software Testing Lifecycle (STLC).",
        href: "/articles/testing-pipeline",
        type: "intro",
      },
      {
        icon: "🛠",
        label: "Using Testkube",
        description:
          "Learn about Workflows, Templates, Triggers, Results and Reporting to get the most of Testkubes features.",
        href: "/articles/using-testkube",
        type: "intro",
      },
      {
        icon: "🛠",
        label: "Examples & Guides",
        description:
          "See example Workflows for your favorite testing tools and learn how to integrate Testkube into your infrastructure.",
        href: "/articles/examples/overview",
        type: "intro",
      },
    ].map((item, i) => (
      <article key={i} className="col padding--sm intro__card">
        <DocCard item={item} />
      </article>
    ))}
  </section>
);

<LearnCardList />

export const LearnMoreCardList = (input) => (
  <section className={clsx("row indent--min")}>
    {[
      {
        icon: "🛠",
        label: "Integrations",
        description:
          "Learn how Testkube integrates into your existing infrastructure via dedicate Plugins, " +
          "Kubernetes Events, Webhooks, CDEvents, etc.",
        href: "/articles/integrations",
        type: "intro",
      },
      {
        icon: "🛠",
        label: "Reference Docs",
        description:
          "Get into the nitty-gritty of Helm Charts, OpenAPI definitions and CLI commands",
        href: "/articles/reference",
        type: "intro",
      },
      {
        icon: "🛠",
        label: "Open Source",
        description:
          "Learn about the Testkube Agent which is 100% Open Source and can run Standalone.",
        href: "/articles/open-source-or-pro",
        type: "intro",
      },
    ].map((item, i) => (
      <article key={i} className="col padding--sm intro__card">
        <DocCard item={item} />
      </article>
    ))}
  </section>
);

<LearnMoreCardList />
