docs/articles/ai-assistant-overview.md, before:

# Testkube AI Assistant Overview

> **On-Prem Installation Notice:**  
> For details on installing and enabling the AI service on On-Prem deployments, please see the [On-Prem Installation](./ai-assistant-on-prem-install.md) page.

Welcome to the documentation for the **Testkube AI Assistant** – an AI-powered assistant integrated directly into the Testkube Dashboard.  
AI Assistant is designed to help you streamline your test orchestration by providing intelligent assistance in areas such as log analysis, dashboard navigation, YAML configuration, and general Testkube guidance.

## Key Features

- **Log Analysis & Debugging:**  
  Summarize, analyze, and debug logs from your test workflow executions.

- **Dashboard Navigation:**  
  Quickly locate settings, audit logs, invitations, API tokens, and more using natural language queries.

- **Workflow Search Assistance:**  
  Search for test workflows using natural language queries (e.g., “find all workflows that failed”) with direct links to filtered views.

- **YAML Configuration Help:**  
  Get assistance with writing and troubleshooting YAML configurations for Test Workflows and Test Workflow Templates.

- **General Testkube Guidance:**  
  Ask questions about the Testkube Control Plane, Agents, and Dashboard, with answers referencing our detailed documentation.

## Learn more about AI Assistant

- [On-Prem Installation](./ai-assistant-on-prem-install.md)
- [Enable AI Assistant](./ai-assistant-enable.md)
- [How AI Assistant can help](./ai-assistant-can-help.md)
- [How AI Assistant is different from other chatbots](./ai-assistant-is-different.md)

Commit message:

added redirects for ai and mcp server and mcp-server tip to ai-assistant overview

docs/articles/ai-assistant-overview.md, after:

# Testkube AI Assistant Overview

> **On-Prem Installation Notice:**  
> For details on installing and enabling the AI service on On-Prem deployments, please see the [On-Prem Installation](./ai-assistant-on-prem-install.md) page.

Welcome to the documentation for the **Testkube AI Assistant** – an AI-powered assistant integrated directly into the Testkube Dashboard.  
AI Assistant is designed to help you streamline your test orchestration by providing intelligent assistance in areas such as log analysis, dashboard navigation, YAML configuration, and general Testkube guidance.

:::tip
Check out the [Testkube MCP Server](/articles/mcp-overview) to see how you can integrate Testkube functionality into your AI-powered workflows and agents.
:::

## Key Features

- **Log Analysis & Debugging:**  
  Summarize, analyze, and debug logs from your test workflow executions.

- **Dashboard Navigation:**  
  Quickly locate settings, audit logs, invitations, API tokens, and more using natural language queries.

- **Workflow Search Assistance:**  
  Search for test workflows using natural language queries (e.g., “find all workflows that failed”) with direct links to filtered views.

- **YAML Configuration Help:**  
  Get assistance with writing and troubleshooting YAML configurations for Test Workflows and Test Workflow Templates.

- **General Testkube Guidance:**  
  Ask questions about the Testkube Control Plane, Agents, and Dashboard, with answers referencing our detailed documentation.

## Learn more about AI Assistant

- [On-Prem Installation](./ai-assistant-on-prem-install.md)
- [Enable AI Assistant](./ai-assistant-enable.md)
- [How AI Assistant can help](./ai-assistant-can-help.md)
- [How AI Assistant is different from other chatbots](./ai-assistant-is-different.md)
