docs/articles/argorollouts-integration.md, before:

# Using Testkube with Argo Rollouts

This document describes how you can use Testkube with [Argo Rollouts](https://argo-rollouts.readthedocs.io/en/stable/). As a prerequisite, you should have a good understanding
of both Testkube, Argo Rollouts and Progressive Delivery principles.

## Overview

Testkube can be used to perform analysis to drive both Canary and BlueGreen Deployments in Argo Rollouts by
creating a corresponding AnalysisTemplate that calls Testkube to validate an ongoing progressive delivery strategy.

## Testkube AnalysisTemplate

A sample AnalysisTemplate that uses the Testkube CLI to run a Test Workflow is shown below:

```yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: AnalysisTemplate
metadata:
  name: testkube-experiment-analysis
spec:
  args:
    - name: workflow-name
      value: basic-k6-workflow
  metrics:
  - name: run-testkube-workflows
    provider:
      job:
        spec:
          template:
            spec:
              containers:
              - name: execute-testkube
                image: kubeshop/testkube-cli:latest
                command:
                - /bin/sh
                - -c
                - |
                  testkube set context \
                    --api-key tkcapi_XX \
                    --root-domain testkube.io \
                    --org-id tkcorg_YY \
                    --env-id tkcenv_ZZ
 
                  testkube run tw {{ args.workflow-name }} -f || exit 1
              restartPolicy: Never
          backoffLimit: 2
    successCondition: "result.exitCode == 0"  # Exit code 0 for success
    failureCondition: "result.exitCode == 1"  # Exit code 1 for failure
    interval: 1m
    count: 1
```

This AnalysisTemplate uses a Kubernetes Job to run the Analysis ([Read More](https://argo-rollouts.readthedocs.io/en/stable/analysis/job/)) 
and also defines the actual Test Workflow to run as an argument, allowing you to use [Analysis Template Arguments](https://argo-rollouts.readthedocs.io/en/stable/features/analysis/#analysis-template-arguments) to
reuse this template for different Rollouts with different Tests (as shown in the examples below).

## Canary Deployments

A sample [Canary Rollout](https://argo-rollouts.readthedocs.io/en/stable/features/canary/) using the above template could look as follows:

```yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Rollout
metadata:
 name: rollout-experiment
spec:
 replicas: 2
 strategy:
   canary:
     steps:
     - setWeight: 50
     - pause: {duration: 10}
     # The second step is the experiment which starts a single canary pod
     - experiment:
         duration: 5m
         templates:
         - name: canary
           specRef: canary
         analysis:
         - name: canary-experiment
           templateName: testkube-experiment-analysis
         args:
         - name: workflow-name
           value: playwright-e2e-test
     - setWeight: 100
     - pause: {duration: 10}
 revisionHistoryLimit: 2
 selector:
   matchLabels:
     app: rollout-experiment
 template:
   metadata:
     labels:
       app: rollout-experiment
   spec:
     etc...
```

This Analysis overrides the `workflow-name` argument to run a different Test Workflow (`playwright-e2e-test`) than 
the default one defined in the AnalysisTemplate above.

## Blue-Green Deployments

For a [BlueGreen Rollout](https://argo-rollouts.readthedocs.io/en/stable/features/bluegreen/), the Analysis 
could be configured as follows, using the Testkube AnalysisTemplate for [Pre-Promotion Analysis](https://argo-rollouts.readthedocs.io/en/stable/features/analysis/#bluegreen-pre-promotion-analysis):

```yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Rollout
metadata:
  name: rollout-bluegreen
spec:
  replicas: 2
  strategy:
    blueGreen:
      activeService: <the current service>
      previewService: <the service to be rolled out>
      autoPromotionEnabled: false
      prePromotionAnalysis:
        templates:
        - templateName: testkube-experiment-analysis
  revisionHistoryLimit: 2
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: rollout-bluegreen
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: rollout-bluegreen
    spec:
      etc...
```

In this case the Analysis is not providing a specific `worfklow-name` argument for the `testkube-experiment-analysis` AnalysisTemplate, 
so the default Test Workflow `basic-k6-workflow` will be run to validate the BlueGreen deployment.

Commit message:

added links and more details..

docs/articles/argorollouts-integration.md, after:

# Using Testkube with Argo Rollouts

This document describes how you can use Testkube with [Argo Rollouts](https://argo-rollouts.readthedocs.io/en/stable/). As a prerequisite, you should have a good understanding
of both Testkube, Argo Rollouts and Progressive Delivery principles.

:::tip
Have a look at the [Automate Progressive Delivery with Testkube](https://testkube.io/learn/automate-progressive-delivery-with-testkube-for-risk-free-application-rollouts)
blog-post for an overview of Progress Delivery with Argo Rollouts and Testkube.
:::

## Overview

Testkube can be used to perform analysis to drive both [Canary](https://argo-rollouts.readthedocs.io/en/stable/features/canary/) and [BlueGreen](https://argo-rollouts.readthedocs.io/en/stable/features/bluegreen/) Deployments in Argo Rollouts by
creating a corresponding AnalysisTemplate that calls Testkube to validate an ongoing progressive delivery strategy.

## Testkube AnalysisTemplate

A sample AnalysisTemplate that uses the [Testkube CLI](/articles/cli) to run a Test Workflow is shown below:

```yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: AnalysisTemplate
metadata:
  name: testkube-experiment-analysis
spec:
  args:
    - name: workflow-name
      value: basic-k6-workflow
  metrics:
  - name: run-testkube-workflows
    provider:
      job:
        spec:
          template:
            spec:
              containers:
              - name: execute-testkube
                image: kubeshop/testkube-cli:latest
                command:
                - /bin/sh
                - -c
                - |
                  testkube set context \
                    --api-key tkcapi_XX \
                    --root-domain testkube.io \
                    --org-id tkcorg_YY \
                    --env-id tkcenv_ZZ
 
                  testkube run tw {{ args.workflow-name }} -f || exit 1
              restartPolicy: Never
          backoffLimit: 2
    successCondition: "result.exitCode == 0"  # Exit code 0 for success
    failureCondition: "result.exitCode == 1"  # Exit code 1 for failure
    interval: 1m
    count: 1
```

This AnalysisTemplate uses a Kubernetes Job to run the Analysis ([Read More](https://argo-rollouts.readthedocs.io/en/stable/analysis/job/)) 
and also defines the actual Test Workflow to run as an argument, which allows you to use [Analysis Template Arguments](https://argo-rollouts.readthedocs.io/en/stable/features/analysis/#analysis-template-arguments) to
reuse this template for different Rollouts with different Tests (as shown in the examples below).

The defined Job uses the Testkube CLI to run the specified Workflow, you will need set the following arguments for the preceding
`testkube set context` command:

- `api-key` : An API Token required to call the Testkube API through the CLI - [Read More](/testkube-pro/articles/api-token-management).
- `org-id`, `env-id` : Organization and Environment IDs for the Environment containing the Workflow to run, you can get these from 
  the Agent Information section of the Environment Settings - [Read More](/testkube-pro/articles/environment-management#agent-information).
- `root-domain` : Where you are hosting the Testkube Control Plane - use `testkube.io` for Testkube Cloud or your internal hostname for on-prem installations.

## Canary Deployments

A sample [Canary Rollout](https://argo-rollouts.readthedocs.io/en/stable/features/canary/) using the above template could look as follows:

```yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Rollout
metadata:
 name: rollout-experiment
spec:
 replicas: 2
 strategy:
   canary:
     steps:
     - setWeight: 50
     - pause: {duration: 10}
     # The second step is the experiment which starts a single canary pod
     - experiment:
         duration: 5m
         templates:
         - name: canary
           specRef: canary
         analysis:
         - name: canary-experiment
           templateName: testkube-experiment-analysis
         args:
         - name: workflow-name
           value: playwright-e2e-test
     - setWeight: 100
     - pause: {duration: 10}
 revisionHistoryLimit: 2
 selector:
   matchLabels:
     app: rollout-experiment
 template:
   metadata:
     labels:
       app: rollout-experiment
   spec:
     etc...
```

This Analysis overrides the `workflow-name` argument to run a different Test Workflow (`playwright-e2e-test`) than 
the default one defined in the AnalysisTemplate above.

## Blue-Green Deployments

For a [BlueGreen Rollout](https://argo-rollouts.readthedocs.io/en/stable/features/bluegreen/), the Analysis 
could be configured as follows, using the Testkube AnalysisTemplate for [Pre-Promotion Analysis](https://argo-rollouts.readthedocs.io/en/stable/features/analysis/#bluegreen-pre-promotion-analysis):

```yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Rollout
metadata:
  name: rollout-bluegreen
spec:
  replicas: 2
  strategy:
    blueGreen:
      activeService: <the current service>
      previewService: <the service to be rolled out>
      autoPromotionEnabled: false
      prePromotionAnalysis:
        templates:
        - templateName: testkube-experiment-analysis
  revisionHistoryLimit: 2
  selector:
    matchLabels:
      app: rollout-bluegreen
  template:
    metadata:
      labels:
        app: rollout-bluegreen
    spec:
      etc...
```

In this case the Analysis is not providing a specific `worfklow-name` argument for the `testkube-experiment-analysis` AnalysisTemplate, 
so the default Test Workflow `basic-k6-workflow` will be run to validate the BlueGreen deployment.
