docs/articles/argocd-integration.md, before:

# Using Testkube with ArgoCD

This document describes how you can use Testkube with ArgoCD. As a prerequisite you should have good understanding
of both Testkube, ArgoCD and GitOps principles. 

:::tip
For a high-level introduction to using Testkube with ArgoCD including a step-by-step tutorial, please check out
our [GitOps blogpost](https://testkube.io/blog/a-gitops-powered-kubernetes-testing-machine-with-argocd-and-testkube).
:::

## Managing Testkube CRDs with ArgoCD

Testkube stores its core resources (Workflows, Triggers, etc.) as Custom Resources in your Kubernetes Cluster -
[Read More about Testkube CRDs](/articles/crds). This makes it straightforward to manage them using a GitOps approach with a tool
like ArgoCD.

To use Testkube Resources in the synced cluster, the target namespace will need to have the Testkube Agent installed (since 
the Agent can currently only work with Testkube Resources in its own namespace). 

If the Testkube Agent is connected to an Environment in the Testkube Control Plane (either on-prem or in Testkube Cloud), 
you will see corresponding Testkube Resources in the Testkube Dashboard as soon as they are synced into your cluster by ArgoCD, 
and be able to trigger/manage them. 

:::note
In line with GitOps principles, any changes that you make to Testkube Resources in your cluster via the Testkube CLI or 
Dashboard will be overwritten by ArgoCD when it syncs these resources against your Git repo (since the Git repo is the 
source of truth for the state of your cluster). Therefore, make sure to make desired modifications to your Testkube Resources 
in your Git repo instead. 
:::

## Using the Testkube Agent with ArgoCD

Since the Testkube Agent needs to be installed in the target namespace for your Argo Application(s), you will need to either

1. Preinstall the Agent in the target namespace and disable pruning in ArgoCD. 
2. Include the Testkube Agent manifests or Helm Chart in your ArgoCD Application.

### Pre-install the Agent and disable Pruning

This option is more suited for long-lived namespaces - for example a dedicated namespace for a staging or development environment.

When pre-installing the Testkube Agent in your target namespace, it is important to NOT select the `prune` option when auto-syncing your
Application with Argo, otherwise Argo will remove the Agent from your namespace when syncing.

![ArgoCD disable prune auto-syncing](images/argocd-disable-prune-autosync.png)

Same applies to manual synchronization - do NOT select the `prune` option:

![ArgoCD disable prune manual sync](images/argocd-disable-prune-manual-sync.png)

### Include the Agent in your GitOps Repo

For ephemeral namespaces it can be more convenient to include the Agent manifests in your GitOps repo so the Agent 
gets installed and synced together with any other resources you are managing with ArgoCD. You can simply use `helm template` 
with the [Testkube Helm Chart](/articles/install/standalone-agent) to generate 
the manifests to be added to your repository.

In this case you can either make use
of the [Multiple Source for an Application](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/multiple_sources/#helm-value-files-from-external-git-repository)
feature of ArgoCD, including the Testkube Helm chart as an external source

```yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
spec:
  sources:
  - repoURL: 'https://kubeshop.github.io/helm-charts'
    chart: testkube
    targetRevision: 2.1.22
    helm:
      valueFiles:
      - $values/charts/testkube-agent/values.yaml
  - repoURL: 'https://git.example.com/org/test-repository.git'
    targetRevision: dev
    ref: values
```

This example installs the Testkube Agent Helm Chart version `2.1.22` together with Kubernetes resources defined in the
`https://git.example.com/org/test-repository.git` repository. A values file at `/charts/testkube-agent/values.yaml`
in this repository is used to configure the Helm installation of the Agent.

#### Connecting the Agent to a Control Plane

If you want to connect the Agent to a Testkube Control Plane (for storing results, troubleshooting, etc),
your values file will require at least the following properties:

```yaml
testkube-api:
  cloud:
    key: tkcagnt_XXX 
    orgId: tkcorg_ZZZ 
    envId: tkcenv_YYY
    url: <url>
  minio:
    enabled: false
    
mongodb:
  enabled: false 
  
testkube-dashboard:
  enabled: false
```

You can find the corresponding values in the [Environment Settings](/testkube-pro/articles/environment-management#general) for the Testkube Environment that the Agent should connect
to:

![Agent Helm Chart Values](images/agent-helm-chart-values.png)

## Triggering Test Executions 

Once any Testkube Test Workflows have been synced to your cluster(s) it is likely that you will want to trigger these to execute
corresponding Tests. You can of course trigger them manually through the CLI or Dashboard, it will probably make more 
sense to trigger them either using an ArgoCD Resource Hook or a Testkube Kubernetes Trigger. 

- Using a **Kubernetes Trigger** has the advantage of being disconnected from ArgoCD; whenever a resource gets updated in your cluster, be it by ArgoCD or
  some other process (`kubectl`, etc.), your tests will always execute. The downside is that they will execute even if your resources are part
  of a larger application, which might fail synchronizing or not be initialized correctly when the test is triggered.
- Using an **ArgoCD Resource Hook** handles the downside of Kubernetes Triggers by being more attune to the overall ArgoCD sync status; if ArgoCD for some reason 
  fails to sync your application resources with your cluster, it won't run your tests unnecessarily (unless you want it to).

Let's have a quick look on how to set up these two approaches.

### Trigger from an ArgoCD Resource Hook

Post-sync Resource hooks are executed by Argo after it has successfully synced resources within an Application - [Read More](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/resource_hooks/). 

Creating a Post-sync hook as a Kubernetes Job that runs Testkube Tests using the Testkube CLI is straightforward; the Job would be 
defined together with your Testkube Resource in your Git repo and ArgoCD will execute it if the synchronization of Git Resources 
to your Cluster is successful. 

The general outline of such a Post-Sync Job is as follows:

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
metadata:
  generateName: testkube-testworkflows-execution-
  namespace: default
  annotations:
    argocd.argoproj.io/hook: PostSync
    argocd.argoproj.io/hook-delete-policy: HookSucceeded
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: execute-testworkflows
        image: kubeshop/testkube-cli:2.1.19
        command:
        - /bin/sh
        - -c
        - |
          testkube set context \
            --api-key tkcapi_ZZZZ \
            --root-domain testkube.io \
            --org-id tkcorg_XXXX \
            --env-id tkcenv_YYYY

          testkube run tw <name-of-workflow> -f
      restartPolicy: Never
```

The Job first sets the Testkube CLI context and then simply invokes the `testkube run` command for each Workflow that was synced, with the -f option to capture the output.
(here you can obviously run any combination of Testkube CLI commands).

- The `tkcorg_XXXX` and `tkcenv_YYYY` identifiers can be found on the [Environment Settings](/testkube-pro/articles/environment-management#general) page. 
- The `tkcapi_ZZZZ` api-key needs to created as described under [API Token Management](/testkube-pro/articles/api-token-management).
- the `root-domain` should be `testkube.io` if you're using Testkube Cloud, or your local Testkube API endpoint for on-prem installations.

:::tip
This [blog-post](https://testkube.io/blog/a-gitops-powered-kubernetes-testing-machine-with-argocd-and-testkube) contains a complete example of a Post-Sync Resource Hook 
with video and screenshots.
:::

### Trigger using a Kubernetes Event Trigger

Defining a Kubernetes Trigger to react to resources being updated by ArgoCD is equally straightforward. See [Kubernetes Triggers](/articles/test-triggers) for
a walkthrough of the Testkube Triggering functionality, let's just look at a short example below:

```yaml
apiVersion: tests.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestTrigger
metadata:
  name: testtrigger-example
  namespace: default
spec:
  resource: deployment
  resourceSelector:
    labelSelector:
      matchLabels:
        testkube.io/tier: backend
  event: modified
  conditionSpec:
    timeout: 100
    delay: 2
    conditions:
      - type: Progressing
        status: "True"
        reason: "NewReplicaSetAvailable"
        ttl: 60
      - type: Available
        status: "True"
  action: run
  execution: workflow
  concurrencyPolicy: allow
  testSelector:
    name: frontend-sanity-tests
```

This will trigger the execution of the "frontend-sanity-tests" Test Workflow when any Kubernetes deployment with the 
label `testkube.io/tier: backend` has been modified in the default namespace, which includes updates performed by ArgoCD 
during resource synchronization.

:::tip
Since Triggers are dependent on the target Workflows they execute, be sure to assign them an [ArgoCD Sync Wave](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/sync-waves/) 
accordingly; you probably want them to be synced _after_ their target Workflows are synced, but _before_ the actual resources
they trigger on are available.
:::

Commit message:

added info about intermediate Testkube Resources

docs/articles/argocd-integration.md, after:

# Using Testkube with ArgoCD

This document describes how you can use Testkube with ArgoCD. As a prerequisite you should have good understanding
of both Testkube, ArgoCD and GitOps principles. 

:::tip
For a high-level introduction to using Testkube with ArgoCD including a step-by-step tutorial, please check out
our [GitOps blogpost](https://testkube.io/blog/a-gitops-powered-kubernetes-testing-machine-with-argocd-and-testkube).
:::

## Managing Testkube CRDs with ArgoCD

Testkube stores its core resources (Workflows, Triggers, etc.) as Custom Resources in your Kubernetes Cluster -
[Read More about Testkube CRDs](/articles/crds). This makes it straightforward to manage them using a GitOps approach with a tool
like ArgoCD.

To use Testkube Resources in the synced cluster, the target namespace will need to have the Testkube Agent installed (since 
the Agent can currently only work with Testkube Resources in its own namespace). 

If the Testkube Agent is connected to an Environment in the Testkube Control Plane (either on-prem or in Testkube Cloud), 
you will see corresponding Testkube Resources in the Testkube Dashboard as soon as they are synced into your cluster by ArgoCD, 
and be able to trigger/manage them. 

:::note
In line with GitOps principles, any changes that you make to Testkube Resources in your cluster via the Testkube CLI or 
Dashboard will be overwritten by ArgoCD when it syncs these resources against your Git repo (since the Git repo is the 
source of truth for the state of your cluster). Therefore, make sure to make desired modifications to your Testkube Resources 
in your Git repo instead. 
:::

### Avoiding pruning of intermediate Testkube Resources

When running your Workflows Testkube generates intermediate Job and Pod resources as described in [Workflows Architecture](/articles/test-workflows-high-level-architecture).
If ArgoCD is performing a sync with pruning enabled while Testkube is executing Workflows, there is a high likelihood 
that these intermediate resources will be deleted by Argo, resulting in aborted/distrupted Workflow executions.

To avoid this you will need to add the below annotations to the generated Job and Pod resources as described in 
[Test Workflows - Job and Pod](/articles/test-workflows-job-and-pod).

```yaml
annotations:
  argocd.argoproj.io/compare-options: IgnoreExtraneous
  argocd.argoproj.io/sync-options: Prune=false
```

:::tip
You can create a [Workflow Template](/articles/test-workflow-templates) that adds these annotations to all your Workflows, instead of adding 
them manually. 
:::

## Using the Testkube Agent with ArgoCD

Since the Testkube Agent needs to be installed in the target namespace for your Argo Application(s), you will need to either

1. Preinstall the Agent in the target namespace and disable pruning in ArgoCD. 
2. Include the Testkube Agent manifests or Helm Chart in your ArgoCD Application.

### Pre-install the Agent and disable Pruning

This option is more suited for long-lived namespaces - for example a dedicated namespace for a staging or development environment.

When pre-installing the Testkube Agent in your target namespace, it is important to NOT select the `prune` option when auto-syncing your
Application with Argo, otherwise Argo will remove the Agent from your namespace when syncing.

![ArgoCD disable prune auto-syncing](images/argocd-disable-prune-autosync.png)

Same applies to manual synchronization - do NOT select the `prune` option:

![ArgoCD disable prune manual sync](images/argocd-disable-prune-manual-sync.png)

### Include the Agent in your GitOps Repo

For ephemeral namespaces it can be more convenient to include the Agent manifests in your GitOps repo so the Agent 
gets installed and synced together with any other resources you are managing with ArgoCD. You can simply use `helm template` 
with the [Testkube Helm Chart](/articles/install/standalone-agent) to generate 
the manifests to be added to your repository.

In this case you can either make use
of the [Multiple Source for an Application](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/multiple_sources/#helm-value-files-from-external-git-repository)
feature of ArgoCD, including the Testkube Helm chart as an external source

```yaml
apiVersion: argoproj.io/v1alpha1
kind: Application
spec:
  sources:
  - repoURL: 'https://kubeshop.github.io/helm-charts'
    chart: testkube
    targetRevision: 2.1.22
    helm:
      valueFiles:
      - $values/charts/testkube-agent/values.yaml
  - repoURL: 'https://git.example.com/org/test-repository.git'
    targetRevision: dev
    ref: values
```

This example installs the Testkube Agent Helm Chart version `2.1.22` together with Kubernetes resources defined in the
`https://git.example.com/org/test-repository.git` repository. A values file at `/charts/testkube-agent/values.yaml`
in this repository is used to configure the Helm installation of the Agent.

#### Connecting the Agent to a Control Plane

If you want to connect the Agent to a Testkube Control Plane (for storing results, troubleshooting, etc),
your values file will require at least the following properties:

```yaml
testkube-api:
  cloud:
    key: tkcagnt_XXX 
    orgId: tkcorg_ZZZ 
    envId: tkcenv_YYY
    url: <url>
  minio:
    enabled: false
    
mongodb:
  enabled: false 
  
testkube-dashboard:
  enabled: false
```

You can find the corresponding values in the [Environment Settings](/testkube-pro/articles/environment-management#general) for the Testkube Environment that the Agent should connect
to:

![Agent Helm Chart Values](images/agent-helm-chart-values.png)

## Triggering Test Executions 

Once any Testkube Test Workflows have been synced to your cluster(s) it is likely that you will want to trigger these to execute
corresponding Tests. You can of course trigger them manually through the CLI or Dashboard, it will probably make more 
sense to trigger them either using an ArgoCD Resource Hook or a Testkube Kubernetes Trigger. 

- Using a **Kubernetes Trigger** has the advantage of being disconnected from ArgoCD; whenever a resource gets updated in your cluster, be it by ArgoCD or
  some other process (`kubectl`, etc.), your tests will always execute. The downside is that they will execute even if your resources are part
  of a larger application, which might fail synchronizing or not be initialized correctly when the test is triggered.
- Using an **ArgoCD Resource Hook** handles the downside of Kubernetes Triggers by being more attune to the overall ArgoCD sync status; if ArgoCD for some reason 
  fails to sync your application resources with your cluster, it won't run your tests unnecessarily (unless you want it to).

Let's have a quick look on how to set up these two approaches.

### Trigger from an ArgoCD Resource Hook

Post-sync Resource hooks are executed by Argo after it has successfully synced resources within an Application - [Read More](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/resource_hooks/). 

Creating a Post-sync hook as a Kubernetes Job that runs Testkube Tests using the Testkube CLI is straightforward; the Job would be 
defined together with your Testkube Resource in your Git repo and ArgoCD will execute it if the synchronization of Git Resources 
to your Cluster is successful. 

The general outline of such a Post-Sync Job is as follows:

```yaml
apiVersion: batch/v1
kind: Job
metadata:
  generateName: testkube-testworkflows-execution-
  namespace: default
  annotations:
    argocd.argoproj.io/hook: PostSync
    argocd.argoproj.io/hook-delete-policy: HookSucceeded
spec:
  template:
    spec:
      containers:
      - name: execute-testworkflows
        image: kubeshop/testkube-cli:2.1.19
        command:
        - /bin/sh
        - -c
        - |
          testkube set context \
            --api-key tkcapi_ZZZZ \
            --root-domain testkube.io \
            --org-id tkcorg_XXXX \
            --env-id tkcenv_YYYY

          testkube run tw <name-of-workflow> -f
      restartPolicy: Never
```

The Job first sets the Testkube CLI context and then simply invokes the `testkube run` command for each Workflow that was synced, with the -f option to capture the output.
(here you can obviously run any combination of Testkube CLI commands).

- The `tkcorg_XXXX` and `tkcenv_YYYY` identifiers can be found on the [Environment Settings](/testkube-pro/articles/environment-management#general) page. 
- The `tkcapi_ZZZZ` api-key needs to created as described under [API Token Management](/testkube-pro/articles/api-token-management).
- the `root-domain` should be `testkube.io` if you're using Testkube Cloud, or your local Testkube API endpoint for on-prem installations.

:::tip
This [blog-post](https://testkube.io/blog/a-gitops-powered-kubernetes-testing-machine-with-argocd-and-testkube) contains a complete example of a Post-Sync Resource Hook 
with video and screenshots.
:::

### Trigger using a Kubernetes Event Trigger

Defining a Kubernetes Trigger to react to resources being updated by ArgoCD is equally straightforward. See [Kubernetes Triggers](/articles/test-triggers) for
a walkthrough of the Testkube Triggering functionality, let's just look at a short example below:

```yaml
apiVersion: tests.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestTrigger
metadata:
  name: testtrigger-example
  namespace: default
spec:
  resource: deployment
  resourceSelector:
    labelSelector:
      matchLabels:
        testkube.io/tier: backend
  event: modified
  conditionSpec:
    timeout: 100
    delay: 2
    conditions:
      - type: Progressing
        status: "True"
        reason: "NewReplicaSetAvailable"
        ttl: 60
      - type: Available
        status: "True"
  action: run
  execution: workflow
  concurrencyPolicy: allow
  testSelector:
    name: frontend-sanity-tests
```

This will trigger the execution of the "frontend-sanity-tests" Test Workflow when any Kubernetes deployment with the 
label `testkube.io/tier: backend` has been modified in the default namespace, which includes updates performed by ArgoCD 
during resource synchronization.

:::tip
Since Triggers are dependent on the target Workflows they execute, be sure to assign them an [ArgoCD Sync Wave](https://argo-cd.readthedocs.io/en/stable/user-guide/sync-waves/) 
accordingly; you probably want them to be synced _after_ their target Workflows are synced, but _before_ the actual resources
they trigger on are available.
:::
