docs/articles/deploying-from-private-registries.md, before:

# Using Testkube with Private Registries  

This guide shows how to deploy and use Testkube with images from private registries. 

To start with, we need to update `values.yaml` file, populating `registry` and `pullSecret` parameters with a value of your private registry and a k8s secret respectively. (Please note that the [k8s secret](https://kubernetes.io/docs/tasks/configure-pod-container/pull-image-private-registry/) should be created prior to Testkube installation.) 
The easiest solution would be to update `global` parameters, which will set a new value for **all** Testkube components, including MongoDB images:

```yaml
global:
  imageRegistry: ""
  imagePullSecrets: []
  labels: {}
  annotations: {}
```

However, NATS chart that is part of Testkube belongs to a third party and as of now it requires passing image registry and image pull secret parameters separately. The snippet from the `values.yaml` file for NATS chart:

```yaml
nats:
  global:
    image:
      registry: registry-name
```

:::caution

Please mind that `global` parameters override all local values, so if it is required to set different registries or secret names, please use `registry` and `pullSecret` parameter for each Testkube service. For example `testkube-api`:
```yaml
testkube-api:
   image: 
     registry: your-registry-name
     repository: kubeshop/testkube-api-server
     tag: "latest"
     pullPolicy: IfNotPresent
     pullSecret: 
       - your-secret-name

```
:::

Once the `values.yaml` is ready we may deploy Testkube to the k8s cluster:

```shell
helm repo add kubeshop https://kubeshop.github.io/helm-charts
helm install --create-namespace testkube kubeshop/testkube --namespace testkube --values ./path-to-values.yaml
```

Commit message:

docs: fix global setting (#172)
* fix global setting

docs/articles/deploying-from-private-registries.md, after:

# Using Global Parameters in Testkube Helm Charts  

Currently it is possible to use `global` setting for `imageRegistry`, `imagePullSecrets`, `labels`, `containerSecurityContext`, `podSecurityContext` for both Control Plane and Agent charts. The list may extend so please check `global` section of  `values.yaml` file in the charts.

### Caveats

Please note that currently there is a discrepancy in providing `imagePullSecrets` for Testkube Control Plane and Agent charts.

Example of using `imagePullSecrets` for Testkube Control Plane helm chart:
```yaml
global:
  imagePullSecrets: 
    - name: secret1
    - name: secret2
```
Example for Agent chart:
```yaml
global:
  imagePullSecrets: 
    - secret1
    - secret2
```

:::caution

Please mind that `global` parameters override all local values, so if it is required to set different registries or secret names, please use `registry` and `pullSecret` parameter for each Testkube service. For example `testkube-api`:
```yaml
testkube-api:
   image: 
     registry: your-registry-name
     repository: kubeshop/testkube-api-server
     tag: "latest"
     pullPolicy: IfNotPresent
     pullSecret: 
       - your-secret-name

```
:::
