docs/articles/github-actions.mdx, before:

# Testkube GitHub Action

The Testkube GitHub Action installs Testkube and enables running any [Testkube CLI](https://docs.testkube.io/cli/testkube) command in a GitHub workflow.
 It is available on [Github Marketplace](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/testkube-action).
The action provides a flexible way to work with your pipeline and can be used with Testkube Pro, Testkube Pro On-Prem and the open source Testkube platform.

## Testkube Pro

### How to configure Testkube CLI action for Testkube Pro and Run a Test Workflow

To use this GitHub Action for the [Testkube Pro](https://app.testkube.io/), you need to create
 an [API token](https://docs.testkube.io/testkube-pro/articles/organization-management/#api-tokens).
Then, pass the **organization** and **environment** IDs, along with the **token** and other parameters specific for your use case.

If a Test Workflow is already created, you may directly run it using the command `testkube run testworkflow TEST_WORKFLOW_NAME -f`.
However, if you need to create a Test Workflow in this workflow, please add a creation command,
e.g.: `testkube create testworkflow -f EXAMPLE_FILE.yaml`.

```yaml
steps:
  - uses: kubeshop/setup-testkube@v1
    with:
      organization: tkcorg_0123456789abcdef
      environment: tkcenv_fedcba9876543210
      token: tkcapi_0123456789abcdef0123456789abcd

  - run: |
      testkube run testworkflow TEST_WORKFLOW_NAME -f 

```
It is recommended that sensitive values should never be stored as plaintext in workflow files, but rather
 as [secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/using-secrets-in-github-actions).
Secrets can be configured at the organization, repository, or environment level, and allow you to store sensitive information in GitHub.

```yaml
steps:
  - uses: kubeshop/setup-testkube@v1
    with:
      organization: ${{ secrets.TkOrganization }}
      environment: ${{ secrets.TkEnvironment }}
      token: ${{ secrets.TkToken }}

  - run: |
      testkube run testworkflow TEST_WORKFLOW_NAME -f 
```

## Testkube Core OSS

### How to Configure Testkube CLI Actions for Testkube Core OSS and Run a Test Workflow

To connect to the self-hosted instance, you need to have **kubectl** configured for accessing your Kubernetes cluster, and simply passing optional namespace,
 if Testkube is not deployed in the default **testkube** namespace. 

If a Test Workflow is already created, you may run it using the command `testkube run testworkflow TEST_WORKFLOW_NAME -f`.
 However, if you need to create a Test Workflow in this workflow, please add a creation command, e.g.: `testkube create testworkflow -f EXAMPLE_FILE.yaml`.

```yaml
steps:
  - uses: kubeshop/setup-testkube@v1
    with:
      namespace: custom-testkube

  - run: |
      testkube run testworkflow TEST_WORKFLOW_NAME -f 

```

Steps to connect to your Kubernetes cluster differ for each provider. You should check the docs of your Cloud provider on
 how to connect to the Kubernetes cluster from GitHub Action, or check examples in this documentation for selected providers.

### How to Configure Testkube CLI Actions for Testkube Core OSS and Run a Test Workflow

This workflow establishes a connection to EKS cluster and creates and runs a test using Testkube CLI. In this example, we also use GitHub secrets
 not to reveal sensitive data. Please make sure that the following points are satisfied:
- The **_AwsAccessKeyId_**, **_AwsSecretAccessKeyId_** secrets should contain your AWS IAM keys with proper permissions to connect to EKS cluster.
- The **_AwsRegion_** secret should contain an AWS region where EKS is.
- Tke **EksClusterName** secret points to the name of EKS cluster you want to connect.

```yaml
steps:
  - name: Checkout
    uses: actions/checkout@v4

  - uses: aws-actions/configure-aws-credentials@v4
    with:
      aws-access-key-id: ${{ secrets.aws-access-key }}
      aws-secret-access-key: ${{ secrets.aws-secret-access-key }}
      aws-region:  ${{ secrets.aws-region }}

  - run: |
      aws eks update-kubeconfig --name ${{ secrets.eks-cluster-name }} --region ${{ secrets.aws-region }}

  - uses: kubeshop/setup-testkube@v1
    -
  - run: |
      testkube run testworkflow TEST_WORKFLOW_NAME -f 
```

### How to Connect to GKE (Google Kubernetes Engine) Cluster and Run a Test Workflow

This example connects to a k8s cluster in Google Cloud, creates and runs a Test Workflow using Testkube GH Action. Please make sure that the following points
 are satisfied:
- The **_GKE Sevice Account_** should be created prior in Google Cloud and added to GH Secrets along with **_GKE Project_** value;
- The **_GKE Cluster Name_** and **_GKE Zone_** can be added as [environmental variables](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/learn-github-actions/variables) in
 the workflow.

```yaml
steps:
  - name: Checkout
    uses: actions/checkout@v4

  - uses: google-github-actions/setup-gcloud@1bee7de035d65ec5da40a31f8589e240eba8fde5
    with:
      service_account_key: ${{ secrets.GKE_SA_KEY }}
      project_id: ${{ secrets.GKE_PROJECT }}

  - run: |-
      gcloud --quiet auth configure-docker

  - uses: google-github-actions/get-gke-credentials@db150f2cc60d1716e61922b832eae71d2a45938f
    with:
      cluster_name: ${{ env.GKE_CLUSTER_NAME }}
      location: ${{ env.GKE_ZONE }}
      credentials: ${{ secrets.GKE_SA_KEY }}

  - uses: kubeshop/setup-testkube@v1
  - run: |
      testkube run testworkflow TEST_WORKFLOW_NAME -f 
```
Please consult the official documentation from GitHub on how to connect to GKE for more information
 [here](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/deploying-to-google-kubernetes-engine).

### Complete Example of Working GitHub Actions Workflow and Testkube Tests Usage
To integrate Testkube Github Actions into your workflow, please take a look at the example that sets up connection to GKE
 and creates and runs a Test Workflow:

```yaml
name: Running Testkube Tests.
on:
  push:
    branches:
      - main
env:
  PROJECT_ID: ${{ secrets.GKE_PROJECT }}
  GKE_CLUSTER: cluster-1    # Add your cluster name here.
  GKE_ZONE: us-central1-c   # Add your cluster zone here.

jobs:
  setup-build-publish-deploy:
    name: Connect to GKE
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    steps:
    - name: Checkout
      uses: actions/checkout@v4

    - uses: google-github-actions/setup-gcloud@1bee7de035d65ec5da40a31f8589e240eba8fde5
      with:
        service_account_key: ${{ secrets.GKE_SA_KEY }}
        project_id: ${{ secrets.GKE_PROJECT }}

    - run: |-
        gcloud --quiet auth configure-docker

    - uses: google-github-actions/get-gke-credentials@db150f2cc60d1716e61922b832eae71d2a45938f
      with:
        cluster_name: ${{ env.GKE_CLUSTER }}
        location: ${{ env.GKE_ZONE }}
        credentials: ${{ secrets.GKE_SA_KEY }}


      - uses: kubeshop/setup-testkube@v1
      - run: |
          testkube run testworkflow TEST_WORKFLOW_NAME -f 
```

Commit message:

fix: github action version
Signed-off-by: Vladislav Sukhin <vladislav@kubeshop.io>

docs/articles/github-actions.mdx, after:

# Testkube GitHub Action

The Testkube GitHub Action installs Testkube and enables running any [Testkube CLI](https://docs.testkube.io/cli/testkube) command in a GitHub workflow.
 It is available on [Github Marketplace](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/testkube-action).
The action provides a flexible way to work with your pipeline and can be used with Testkube Pro, Testkube Pro On-Prem and the open source Testkube platform.

## Testkube Pro

### How to configure Testkube CLI action for Testkube Pro and Run a Test Workflow

To use this GitHub Action for the [Testkube Pro](https://app.testkube.io/), you need to create
 an [API token](https://docs.testkube.io/testkube-pro/articles/organization-management/#api-tokens).
Then, pass the **organization** and **environment** IDs, along with the **token** and other parameters specific for your use case.

If a Test Workflow is already created, you may directly run it using the command `testkube run testworkflow TEST_WORKFLOW_NAME -f`.
However, if you need to create a Test Workflow in this workflow, please add a creation command,
e.g.: `testkube create testworkflow -f EXAMPLE_FILE.yaml`.

```yaml
steps:
  - uses: kubeshop/setup-testkube@v1
    with:
      organization: tkcorg_0123456789abcdef
      environment: tkcenv_fedcba9876543210
      token: tkcapi_0123456789abcdef0123456789abcd

  - run: |
      testkube run testworkflow TEST_WORKFLOW_NAME -f 

```
It is recommended that sensitive values should never be stored as plaintext in workflow files, but rather
 as [secrets](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/security-guides/using-secrets-in-github-actions).
Secrets can be configured at the organization, repository, or environment level, and allow you to store sensitive information in GitHub.

```yaml
steps:
  - uses: kubeshop/setup-testkube@v1
    with:
      organization: ${{ secrets.TkOrganization }}
      environment: ${{ secrets.TkEnvironment }}
      token: ${{ secrets.TkToken }}

  - run: |
      testkube run testworkflow TEST_WORKFLOW_NAME -f 
```

## Testkube Core OSS

### How to Configure Testkube CLI Actions for Testkube Core OSS and Run a Test Workflow

To connect to the self-hosted instance, you need to have **kubectl** configured for accessing your Kubernetes cluster, and simply passing optional namespace,
 if Testkube is not deployed in the default **testkube** namespace. 
You can also specify a particular Testkube CLI or API version (don't confuse it with the Helm chart one), if it's omitted, then latest version is used.
The list of [releases] (https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube/releases) can be found in Testkube Github repository.

If a Test Workflow is already created, you may run it using the command `testkube run testworkflow TEST_WORKFLOW_NAME -f`.
 However, if you need to create a Test Workflow in this workflow, please add a creation command, e.g.: `testkube create testworkflow -f EXAMPLE_FILE.yaml`.

```yaml
steps:
  - uses: kubeshop/setup-testkube@v1
    with:
      namespace: custom-testkube
      version: 2.0.11

  - run: |
      testkube run testworkflow TEST_WORKFLOW_NAME -f 

```

Steps to connect to your Kubernetes cluster differ for each provider. You should check the docs of your Cloud provider on
 how to connect to the Kubernetes cluster from GitHub Action, or check examples in this documentation for selected providers.

### How to Configure Testkube CLI Actions for Testkube Core OSS and Run a Test Workflow

This workflow establishes a connection to EKS cluster and creates and runs a test using Testkube CLI. In this example, we also use GitHub secrets
 not to reveal sensitive data. Please make sure that the following points are satisfied:
- The **_AwsAccessKeyId_**, **_AwsSecretAccessKeyId_** secrets should contain your AWS IAM keys with proper permissions to connect to EKS cluster.
- The **_AwsRegion_** secret should contain an AWS region where EKS is.
- Tke **EksClusterName** secret points to the name of EKS cluster you want to connect.

```yaml
steps:
  - name: Checkout
    uses: actions/checkout@v4

  - uses: aws-actions/configure-aws-credentials@v4
    with:
      aws-access-key-id: ${{ secrets.aws-access-key }}
      aws-secret-access-key: ${{ secrets.aws-secret-access-key }}
      aws-region:  ${{ secrets.aws-region }}

  - run: |
      aws eks update-kubeconfig --name ${{ secrets.eks-cluster-name }} --region ${{ secrets.aws-region }}

  - uses: kubeshop/setup-testkube@v1
    -
  - run: |
      testkube run testworkflow TEST_WORKFLOW_NAME -f 
```

### How to Connect to GKE (Google Kubernetes Engine) Cluster and Run a Test Workflow

This example connects to a k8s cluster in Google Cloud, creates and runs a Test Workflow using Testkube GH Action. Please make sure that the following points
 are satisfied:
- The **_GKE Sevice Account_** should be created prior in Google Cloud and added to GH Secrets along with **_GKE Project_** value;
- The **_GKE Cluster Name_** and **_GKE Zone_** can be added as [environmental variables](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/learn-github-actions/variables) in
 the workflow.

```yaml
steps:
  - name: Checkout
    uses: actions/checkout@v4

  - uses: google-github-actions/setup-gcloud@1bee7de035d65ec5da40a31f8589e240eba8fde5
    with:
      service_account_key: ${{ secrets.GKE_SA_KEY }}
      project_id: ${{ secrets.GKE_PROJECT }}

  - run: |-
      gcloud --quiet auth configure-docker

  - uses: google-github-actions/get-gke-credentials@db150f2cc60d1716e61922b832eae71d2a45938f
    with:
      cluster_name: ${{ env.GKE_CLUSTER_NAME }}
      location: ${{ env.GKE_ZONE }}
      credentials: ${{ secrets.GKE_SA_KEY }}

  - uses: kubeshop/setup-testkube@v1
  - run: |
      testkube run testworkflow TEST_WORKFLOW_NAME -f 
```
Please consult the official documentation from GitHub on how to connect to GKE for more information
 [here](https://docs.github.com/en/actions/deployment/deploying-to-google-kubernetes-engine).

### Complete Example of Working GitHub Actions Workflow and Testkube Tests Usage
To integrate Testkube Github Actions into your workflow, please take a look at the example that sets up connection to GKE
 and creates and runs a Test Workflow:

```yaml
name: Running Testkube Tests.
on:
  push:
    branches:
      - main
env:
  PROJECT_ID: ${{ secrets.GKE_PROJECT }}
  GKE_CLUSTER: cluster-1    # Add your cluster name here.
  GKE_ZONE: us-central1-c   # Add your cluster zone here.

jobs:
  setup-build-publish-deploy:
    name: Connect to GKE
    runs-on: ubuntu-latest

    steps:
    - name: Checkout
      uses: actions/checkout@v4

    - uses: google-github-actions/setup-gcloud@1bee7de035d65ec5da40a31f8589e240eba8fde5
      with:
        service_account_key: ${{ secrets.GKE_SA_KEY }}
        project_id: ${{ secrets.GKE_PROJECT }}

    - run: |-
        gcloud --quiet auth configure-docker

    - uses: google-github-actions/get-gke-credentials@db150f2cc60d1716e61922b832eae71d2a45938f
      with:
        cluster_name: ${{ env.GKE_CLUSTER }}
        location: ${{ env.GKE_ZONE }}
        credentials: ${{ secrets.GKE_SA_KEY }}


      - uses: kubeshop/setup-testkube@v1
      - run: |
          testkube run testworkflow TEST_WORKFLOW_NAME -f 
```
