docs/articles/integrations.md, before:

# Testkube Integrations Overview

Testkube can be integrated into existing workflows and infrastructure in several ways, including 
- Native integrations
- The [Testkube CLI](/articles/install/cli).
- The [Testkube API](/openapi/overview).
- The [WebHooks functionality](/articles/webhooks).

All these are described/used as applicable in the articles below.

:::tip
If your favorite tool isn't covered here, have a look at [General Steps for CI/CD Integration](/articles/cicd-overview#general-steps-for-cicd-integration) or let
us know on our Slack channel so we can add it!
:::

## CI/CD Tooling

- [GitHub](/articles/github-actions) - Learn to integrate Testkube with GitHub Workflows.
- [GitLab](/articles/gitlab) - Learn how to integrate Testkube with GitLab CI.
- Jenkins
  - [Using Jenkins Pipelines](/articles/jenkins) - Learn how to integrate Testkube with Jenkins Pipelines.
  - [Using the Jenkins UI](/articles/jenkins-ui) - Learn how to integrate Testkube from the Jenkins UI.
- [Azure DevOps](/articles/azure) - Learn how to integrate Testkube with Azure DevOps.
- [BitBucket](https://testkube.io/learn/unleashing-the-power-of-ci-cd-testing-with-bitbucket-and-testkube) - Learn how to integrate Testkube with BitBucket.
- [CircleCI](/articles/circleci) - Learn how to integrate Testkube with CircleCI.
- [Tekton](/articles/tekton) - Learn how to integrate Testkube with Tekton.
- [Argo Rollouts](argorollouts-integration) - Learn how to use Testkube with Progressive Delivery in Argo Rollouts.

## GitOps Tooling

- [ArgoCD](/articles/argocd-integration) - Learn how to integrate Testkube with ArgoCD.
- [Flux](/articles/flux-integration) - Learn how to integrate Testkube with Flux.

## Kubernetes

- [Kubernetes Events](/articles/k8s-events) - Learn about events emitted by Testkube.
- [Prometheus](/articles/metrics) - Learn about metrics exposed by Testkube.
- [Grafana](/articles/grafana) - Learn about how to integrate with Grafana.

## Process/Workflows

- [Argo Workflows](/articles/argoworkflows-integration) - Learn how to run Testkube CLI commands from Argo Workflows
- [Slack](/articles/slack-integration) - Learn about how to configure Slack integration with Testkube.
- [PagerDuty](https://testkube.io/learn/critical-test-based-alerting-with-pagerduty-and-testkube) - Learn about how to integrate Testkube with PagerDuty for alerting.
- [Zapier](https://testkube.io/learn/integrating-testkube-and-zapier-for-instant-email-alerts) - Learn about how to integrate Testkube with Zapier.
- [Microsoft Teams](/articles/teams-integration) - Learn about how to integrate with Microsoft Teams.
- [Atlassian Jira](/articles/jira-integration) - Learn about how to integrate with Atlassian Jira.

## Miscellaneous
 
- [CDEvents](/articles/cd-events) - Learn about CDEvents emitted by Testkube.

Commit message:

added keptn integration and webhook-template improvements

docs/articles/integrations.md, after:

# Testkube Integrations Overview

Testkube can be integrated into existing workflows and infrastructure in several ways, including 
- Native integrations
- The [Testkube CLI](/articles/install/cli).
- The [Testkube API](/openapi/overview).
- The [WebHooks functionality](/articles/webhooks).

All these are described/used as applicable in the articles below.

:::tip
If your favorite tool isn't covered here, have a look at [General Steps for CI/CD Integration](/articles/cicd-overview#general-steps-for-cicd-integration) or let
us know on our Slack channel so we can add it!
:::

## CI/CD Tooling

- [GitHub](/articles/github-actions) - Learn to integrate Testkube with GitHub Workflows.
- [GitLab](/articles/gitlab) - Learn how to integrate Testkube with GitLab CI.
- Jenkins
  - [Using Jenkins Pipelines](/articles/jenkins) - Learn how to integrate Testkube with Jenkins Pipelines.
  - [Using the Jenkins UI](/articles/jenkins-ui) - Learn how to integrate Testkube from the Jenkins UI.
- [Azure DevOps](/articles/azure) - Learn how to integrate Testkube with Azure DevOps.
- [BitBucket](https://testkube.io/learn/unleashing-the-power-of-ci-cd-testing-with-bitbucket-and-testkube) - Learn how to integrate Testkube with BitBucket.
- [CircleCI](/articles/circleci) - Learn how to integrate Testkube with CircleCI.
- [Tekton](/articles/tekton) - Learn how to integrate Testkube with Tekton.
- [Keptn](https://testkube.io/learn/leveraging-testkube-as-a-quality-gate-in-multi-stage-deployments-with-keptn) - Leveraging Testkube as a Quality Gate in Multi-Stage Deployments with Keptn.
- [Argo Rollouts](argorollouts-integration) - Learn how to use Testkube with Progressive Delivery in Argo Rollouts.

## GitOps Tooling

- [ArgoCD](/articles/argocd-integration) - Learn how to integrate Testkube with ArgoCD.
- [Flux](/articles/flux-integration) - Learn how to integrate Testkube with Flux.

## Kubernetes

- [Kubernetes Events](/articles/k8s-events) - Learn about events emitted by Testkube.
- [Prometheus](/articles/metrics) - Learn about metrics exposed by Testkube.
- [Grafana](/articles/grafana) - Learn about how to integrate with Grafana.

## Process/Workflows

- [Argo Workflows](/articles/argoworkflows-integration) - Learn how to run Testkube CLI commands from Argo Workflows
- [Slack](/articles/slack-integration) - Learn about how to configure Slack integration with Testkube.
- [PagerDuty](https://testkube.io/learn/critical-test-based-alerting-with-pagerduty-and-testkube) - Learn about how to integrate Testkube with PagerDuty for alerting.
- [Zapier](https://testkube.io/learn/integrating-testkube-and-zapier-for-instant-email-alerts) - Learn about how to integrate Testkube with Zapier.
- [Microsoft Teams](/articles/teams-integration) - Learn about how to integrate with Microsoft Teams.
- [Atlassian Jira](/articles/jira-integration) - Learn about how to integrate with Atlassian Jira.

## Miscellaneous
 
- [CDEvents](/articles/cd-events) - Learn about CDEvents emitted by Testkube.
