docs/articles/jenkins-ui.md, before:

# Testkube Jenkins UI

The Testkube Jenkins integration streamlines the installation of Testkube, enabling the execution of any [Testkube CLI](https://docs.testkube.io/cli/testkube) command within Jenkins Pipelines or Freestyle Projects.  

If you're looking to use Pipelines and Groovy scripts, then look at examples from [Testkube Jenkins Pipelines](./jenkins.md).

### Testkube CLI Jenkins Plugin

Install the Testkube CLI plugin by searching for it in the "Available Plugins" section on Jenkins Plugins, or using the following url:
[https://plugins.jenkins.io/testkube-cli](https://plugins.jenkins.io/testkube-cli)

## Testkube Pro

To use Jenkins CI/CD for [Testkube Pro](https://app.testkube.io/), you need to create an [API token](https://docs.testkube.io/testkube-pro/articles/organization-management/#api-tokens).


### How to set up a Freestyle Project to run tests on Testkube Pro

1. Create a new Freestyle Project.
2. In General settings, configure the environment variables:
   - TK_ORG
   - TK_ENV
   - TK_API_TOKEN
  
![jenkins environment variables configuration](../img/jenkins-environment.png)

3. Click on "Add Build Step" and select "Testkube Setup".
![jenkins testkube setup build step](../img/jenkins-build-step.png)

4. Specify a Testkube CLI version or leave it empty to use the latest version.

5. Add a new "Execute Shell" Build Step and run one or multiple Testkube CLI commands.
![jenkins execute shell](../img/jenkins-execute-shell.png)

Commit message:

Add warning to legacy features docs
with a link to current documentation.

docs/articles/jenkins-ui.md, after:

# Testkube Jenkins UI

:::warning
The features described in this document are being deprecated. You can find more details about the current Testkube features to perform these functions [here](../articles/legacy-features.md).
:::

The Testkube Jenkins integration streamlines the installation of Testkube, enabling the execution of any [Testkube CLI](https://docs.testkube.io/cli/testkube) command within Jenkins Pipelines or Freestyle Projects.  

If you're looking to use Pipelines and Groovy scripts, then look at examples from [Testkube Jenkins Pipelines](./jenkins.md).

### Testkube CLI Jenkins Plugin

Install the Testkube CLI plugin by searching for it in the "Available Plugins" section on Jenkins Plugins, or using the following url:
[https://plugins.jenkins.io/testkube-cli](https://plugins.jenkins.io/testkube-cli)

## Testkube Pro

To use Jenkins CI/CD for [Testkube Pro](https://app.testkube.io/), you need to create an [API token](https://docs.testkube.io/testkube-pro/articles/organization-management/#api-tokens).


### How to set up a Freestyle Project to run tests on Testkube Pro

1. Create a new Freestyle Project.
2. In General settings, configure the environment variables:
   - TK_ORG
   - TK_ENV
   - TK_API_TOKEN
  
![jenkins environment variables configuration](../img/jenkins-environment.png)

3. Click on "Add Build Step" and select "Testkube Setup".
![jenkins testkube setup build step](../img/jenkins-build-step.png)

4. Specify a Testkube CLI version or leave it empty to use the latest version.

5. Add a new "Execute Shell" Build Step and run one or multiple Testkube CLI commands.
![jenkins execute shell](../img/jenkins-execute-shell.png)
