docs/articles/jira-integration.md, before:

# Atlassian Jira

You can use Webhooks to create issues in Atlassian JIRA projects, but you will first need to use the [JIRA REST API](https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/jira/platform/rest/v3/) 
to look up the project id and issuetype id for your target JIRA Project and type of issue you want to create.

## Looking up JIRA Project and IssueType ids

Follow these steps:

1. Create a JIRA API Token that you can use for your API calls - [Read More](https://support.atlassian.com/atlassian-account/docs/manage-api-tokens-for-your-atlassian-account/).
2. Use the [Get All Projects](https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/jira/platform/rest/v3/api-group-projects/#api-rest-api-3-project-get) operation to find the `id` of the target project.
3. Use the [Get Project Issue Type](https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/jira/platform/rest/v3/api-group-projects/#api-rest-api-3-project-projectid-hierarchy-get) operation to find the
   `id` of the type of issue that you want to create with the Webhook.

## Create a WebhookTemplate for creating Issues 

The actual Webhook configuration will be in a [WebhookTemplate](/articles/webhooks#webhook-templates) so it can be reused for multiple Webhooks. 

In this example we will add parameters for

- `duedate` - the due date for the created issue.
- `issuetype` - the id of the default issue type to create (as looked up with the API above).
- `priority` the priority id of the created issue - use [Get Priorities](https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/jira/platform/rest/v3/api-group-issue-priorities/#api-rest-api-3-priority-get) to look this up.
- `project` - the id of the default project to create issues in (as looked up with the API above).
- `token` - JIRA API token

Any Webhook using this WebhookTemplate will be able to override these values as needed.

- The `payloadTemplate` specifies the content to send to the [Create Issue](https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/jira/platform/rest/v3/api-group-issues/#api-rest-api-3-issue-post) operation, 
  read more about [Webhook Payloads](/articles/webhooks#webhook-payload) to see how you can configure this.
- Specify the `uri` for your JIRA instance (you could even put this in a parameter if you want to create issues in different JIRA instances).
- The template will trigger on the `end-testworkflow-failed` event, you can of course change this to whatever suits your needs, or even make it configurable via a corresponding parameter.

```yaml
apiVersion: executor.testkube.io/v1
kind: WebhookTemplate
metadata:
  name: template-jira
  namespace: testkube
spec:
  parameters:
    - name: duedate
      description: due date
      required: true
      example: "2025-02-01"
    - name: issuetype
      description: issue type id
      required: true
      example: "10004"
    - name: priority
      description: priority id
      required: false
      example: "3"
      default: "3"
      pattern: "^[0-9]*$"
    - name: project
      description: project id
      required: true
      example: "10019"
    - name: token
      description: token
      required: true
      example: "ABCDE"
  events:
  - end-testworkflow-failed
  uri: https://kubeshop.atlassian.net/rest/api/3/issue
  payloadTemplate: |
    {
      "fields": {
        "duedate": "{{ index .Config "duedate" }}",
        "labels": [
           "bugfix",
           "blitz_test"
        ],
        "issuetype": {
          "id": "{{ index .Config "issuetype" }}"
        },
        "priority": {
          "id": "{{ index .Config "priority" }}"
        },
        "project": {
          "id": "{{ index .Config "project" }}"
        },
        "description": {
          "type": "doc",
          "version": 1,
          "content": [
            {
              "type": "paragraph",
              "content": [
                {
                  "text": "Please check details at {{ .ExecutionURL }}",
                  "type": "text"
                }
              ]
            }
          ]
        },
        "summary": "{{ .TestWorkflowExecution.Name }}"
      },
      "update": {}
    }
  headers:
    Accept: application/json
    Content-Type: application/json
    Authorization: "Basic {{ index .Config \"token\" }}"
```

## Save the JIRA API Token to a Secret

To ensure confidential handling of your JIRA API Token it is recommende to store it in a Secret:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: webhook-vars
  namespace: testkube
type: Opaque
data:
  jiraApiToken: <your_jira_api_token>
```

## Create Webhook(s) for creating issues

We can now create any number of Webhooks that use the above WebhookTemplate, with corresponding input values to override the default values as needed:
 
```yaml
apiVersion: executor.testkube.io/v1
kind: Webhook
metadata:
  name: jira-webhook
  namespace: testkube
spec:
  config:
    duedate:
      value: "2025-02-01"
    issuetype:
      value: "10004"
    project:
      value: "10019"
    token:
      secret:
        name: webhook-vars
        key: jiraApiToken
  webhookTemplateRef:
    name: template-jira
```

### Use Labels to control which Workflows that generate issues

In the above example, you might not want to create JIRA Issues for all `end-testworkflow-failed` events in your Testkube Environment, in
which case you can use [Resource Selectors](/articles/webhooks#resource-selector-labels) to narrow this down.

For example, adding the below selector will result in only failed executions for Workflows labeled with `priority: p0` to trigger this Webhook and 
creating a corresponding JIRA.

```
apiVersion: executor.testkube.io/v1
kind: Webhook
...
  selector: priority=p0
```

Commit message:

Added Base64 instruction to secret instructions

docs/articles/jira-integration.md, after:

# Atlassian Jira

You can use Webhooks to create issues in Atlassian JIRA projects, but you will first need to use the [JIRA REST API](https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/jira/platform/rest/v3/) 
to look up the project id and issuetype id for your target JIRA Project and type of issue you want to create.

## Looking up JIRA Project and IssueType ids

Follow these steps:

1. Create a JIRA API Token that you can use for your API calls - [Read More](https://support.atlassian.com/atlassian-account/docs/manage-api-tokens-for-your-atlassian-account/).
2. Use the [Get All Projects](https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/jira/platform/rest/v3/api-group-projects/#api-rest-api-3-project-get) operation to find the `id` of the target project.
3. Use the [Get Project Issue Type](https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/jira/platform/rest/v3/api-group-projects/#api-rest-api-3-project-projectid-hierarchy-get) operation to find the
   `id` of the type of issue that you want to create with the Webhook.

## Create a WebhookTemplate for creating Issues 

The actual Webhook configuration will be in a [WebhookTemplate](/articles/webhooks#webhook-templates) so it can be reused for multiple Webhooks. 

In this example we will add parameters for

- `duedate` - the due date for the created issue.
- `issuetype` - the id of the default issue type to create (as looked up with the API above).
- `priority` the priority id of the created issue - use [Get Priorities](https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/jira/platform/rest/v3/api-group-issue-priorities/#api-rest-api-3-priority-get) to look this up.
- `project` - the id of the default project to create issues in (as looked up with the API above).
- `token` - JIRA API token

Any Webhook using this WebhookTemplate will be able to override these values as needed.

- The `payloadTemplate` specifies the content to send to the [Create Issue](https://developer.atlassian.com/cloud/jira/platform/rest/v3/api-group-issues/#api-rest-api-3-issue-post) operation, 
  read more about [Webhook Payloads](/articles/webhooks#webhook-payload) to see how you can configure this.
- Specify the `uri` for your JIRA instance (you could even put this in a parameter if you want to create issues in different JIRA instances).
- The template will trigger on the `end-testworkflow-failed` event, you can of course change this to whatever suits your needs, or even make it configurable via a corresponding parameter.

```yaml
apiVersion: executor.testkube.io/v1
kind: WebhookTemplate
metadata:
  name: template-jira
  namespace: testkube
spec:
  parameters:
    - name: duedate
      description: due date
      required: true
      example: "2025-02-01"
    - name: issuetype
      description: issue type id
      required: true
      example: "10004"
    - name: priority
      description: priority id
      required: false
      example: "3"
      default: "3"
      pattern: "^[0-9]*$"
    - name: project
      description: project id
      required: true
      example: "10019"
    - name: token
      description: token
      required: true
      example: "ABCDE"
  events:
  - end-testworkflow-failed
  uri: https://kubeshop.atlassian.net/rest/api/3/issue
  payloadTemplate: |
    {
      "fields": {
        "duedate": "{{ index .Config "duedate" }}",
        "labels": [
           "bugfix",
           "blitz_test"
        ],
        "issuetype": {
          "id": "{{ index .Config "issuetype" }}"
        },
        "priority": {
          "id": "{{ index .Config "priority" }}"
        },
        "project": {
          "id": "{{ index .Config "project" }}"
        },
        "description": {
          "type": "doc",
          "version": 1,
          "content": [
            {
              "type": "paragraph",
              "content": [
                {
                  "text": "Please check details at {{ .ExecutionURL }}",
                  "type": "text"
                }
              ]
            }
          ]
        },
        "summary": "{{ .TestWorkflowExecution.Name }}"
      },
      "update": {}
    }
  headers:
    Accept: application/json
    Content-Type: application/json
    Authorization: "Basic {{ index .Config \"token\" }}"
```

## Save the JIRA API Token to a Secret

To ensure confidential handling of your JIRA API Token it is recommended to store it in a Secret. The `jiraApiToken` value stored in the secret must be the Base64 encoded string of your email and token combined in the format `email:token`:

```yaml
apiVersion: v1
kind: Secret
metadata:
  name: webhook-vars
  namespace: testkube
type: Opaque
data:
  jiraApiToken: <your_jira_api_token>
```

## Create Webhook(s) for creating issues

We can now create any number of Webhooks that use the above WebhookTemplate, with corresponding input values to override the default values as needed:
 
```yaml
apiVersion: executor.testkube.io/v1
kind: Webhook
metadata:
  name: jira-webhook
  namespace: testkube
spec:
  config:
    duedate:
      value: "2025-02-01"
    issuetype:
      value: "10004"
    project:
      value: "10019"
    token:
      secret:
        name: webhook-vars
        key: jiraApiToken
  webhookTemplateRef:
    name: template-jira
```

### Use Labels to control which Workflows that generate issues

In the above example, you might not want to create JIRA Issues for all `end-testworkflow-failed` events in your Testkube Environment, in
which case you can use [Resource Selectors](/articles/webhooks#resource-selector-labels) to narrow this down.

For example, adding the below selector will result in only failed executions for Workflows labeled with `priority: p0` to trigger this Webhook and 
creating a corresponding JIRA.

```
apiVersion: executor.testkube.io/v1
kind: Webhook
...
  selector: priority=p0
```
