docs/articles/multi-agent-runner-helm-chart.md, before:

# Installing Runner Agent with Helm Charts

You can install lightweight Runner Agent using `kubeshop/testkube-runner` Helm Chart.

## Creating Runner Agent for Helm Charts

To create Runner Agent, you can run `testkube create runner` command, like:

```sh
testkube create runner my-name --label my-label=my-value
```

After selecting the environment (unless you pass `--env env-id` parameter),
it will display information with agent ID and secret key:

```
ID:             tkcrun_55c1c5845a1fd20d9bf5de7737311959
Name:           my-name
Type:           Runner (reserved)
Created:        25 Apr 25 10:18 +0200 (0s)
Disabled:       no
Secret Key:     tkckey_run_6kivz9hvgoxwd9ihqq9xyhihk1y3qzua
Last Activity:  never
Last Version:
Last Namespace:
Environments:
    my-environment (tkcenv_9868d11cdb3ca577)
Labels:
   my-label: my-value
Policy:
   Required Matching Labels: name
```

## Basic installation

1. Add the Kubeshop Helm repository:
   ```sh
   helm repo add kubeshop https://kubeshop.github.io/helm-charts
   ```
2. If this repo already exists, run `helm repo update` to retrieve
   the `latest` versions of the packages.
   You can then run `helm search repo testkube` to see the charts.
3. Install the Helm Chart:
   ```sh
   helm upgrade --install \
     --create-namespace \
     --namespace my-runner \
     --set 'runner.id=<your:tkcrun_:runner_id>' \
     --set 'runner.orgId=<your:tkcorg_:organization_id>' \
     --set 'runner.secret=<your:tkckey_run_:key>' \
     --set 'cloud.url=agent.testkube.io:443' \
     my-runner kubeshop/testkube-runner
   ```

You can also use own `values.yaml` file, based on [our defaults](https://github.com/kubeshop/helm-charts/blob/main/charts/testkube-runner/values.yaml):

```yaml
runner:
  id: "<your:tkcrun_:runner_id>"
  orgId: "<your:tkcorg_:organization_id>"
  secret: "<your:tkckey_run_:key>"

cloud:
  url: "agent.testkube.io:443"
```

## Cookbook

There are common things that you may want to set up in your values.

### Install Runner in one namespace and run executions in another

To separate concerns, you may separate your runners from the execution:

```yaml
execution:
  default:
    namespace: my-execution-namespace
```

### Disable access to Kubernetes from executions

By default, your executions will use a ServiceAccount that has access to pods, jobs, and events.
It's required for [Parallel Steps](/articles/test-workflows-parallel) and [Services](/articles/test-workflows-services).

To disable it, you can disable auto-creation of ServiceAccount for executions:

```yaml
execution:
  default:
    serviceAccount:
      autoCreate: false
      # name: my-custom-service-account # you can also use your own service account
```

:::tip
Read more about [ServiceAccounts below](#service-accounts)
:::

### Support additional namespaces

You can also allow the runner to schedule in multiple namespaces.

In your `values.yaml` file:

```yaml
execution:
  additionalNamespaces:
    'custom-namespace':
      serviceAccount:
        autoCreate: false # set 'true' to allow parallel steps & services
        # name: my-custom-service-account # you can also use your own service account
```

Then, in your workflow configure:

```yaml
spec:
  job:
    namespace: custom-namespace
```

### Setting Global Template

For each runner, you may set a custom Global Template.
It will be used as the foundation for every execution in this Runner Agent.

It's useful for example to set up OpenShift's security context, that will be separate for each runner:

```yaml
globalTemplate:
  enabled: true
  spec:
   pod:
     securityContext:
     enabled: true
     fsGroup: 1000650001
     runAsUser: 1000650001
   container:
     securityContext:
       runAsUser: 1000650001
       runAsNonRoot: true
```

## Service Accounts

The Runner Agent Helm Chart creates two kinds of ServiceAccounts:

- `exec-sa-testkube` - ServiceAccount for the Execution Pods; it allows the Execution to schedule and monitor Pods for `services` and `parallel` syntaxes.
- `agent-sa-testkube` - ServiceAccount for Agent Pods; it allows the Agent to (1) create pods for executions, and (2) read configmaps/secrets in own namespace.

The `agent-sa-testkube` ServiceAccount needs to be in the Agent's namespace, as it's used by the Agent's Pod.
The `exec-sa-testkube` ServiceAccounts are deployed to the namespaces where the executions will run as they need to use them in the above situations.

:::note
The `-testkube` suffix in the ServiceAccount names above and below might differ based on the underlying Helm Chart release name.
:::

### Example: Using the same namespace for Agent and Executions

By default, we deploy both Agent and Executions to the same namespace the Helm Chart is released to. 
Then, `agent-sa-testkube` and `exec-sa-testkube` are deployed in that namespace. `agent-sa-testkube` has wider permissions and is used by Agent, 
`exec-sa-testkube` has smaller permissions and is used by Executions.

###  Example: Avoid ServiceAccount for the executions

If you are not using `services` and `parallel` syntax, you may want to set Helm Chart values to:

```yaml
execution:
  default:
    serviceAccount:
      autoCreate: false
```

This way, the executions will use default or specified ServiceAccount, that likely won't have access to i.e. reading pods (in opposite to auto-created one). 
This blocks the ability of using `services` and `parallel` though, unless you will provide service account name in the spec with

```yaml
  pod: 
    serviceAccountName: "my-name-or-i-e-agent-sa-testkube"
```

:::tip
Read more about Workflow `pod` configuration at [Test Workflows - Job and Pod Configuration](/articles/test-workflows-job-and-pod).
:::

### Example: Run executions in a different namespace than the Agent

For better security, you may isolate the executions to be running in a different namespace than the Agent. This way, you ensure that they 
cannot i.e. read Agent's data (like Agent Token), or anything else. Also, this could help to i.e. deploy multiple runners in the same namespace, 
while having the executions for each of them in a different one.

To achieve that, you can use such Helm Chart values:

```yaml
execution:
  default:
    namespace: "my-namespace-where-only-executions-should-run"
```

In such case:
- `agent-sa-testkube` ServiceAccount will still be deployed in the Helm Chart release namespace,
- `exec-sa-testkube` ServiceAccount will be deployed in `my-namespace-where-only-executions-should-run` namespace

### Example: Full Security

You can as well combine both cases - avoid `parallel`/`services` and deploy executions to a separate namespace. This way you have full isolation.

```yaml
execution:
  default:
    namespace: "my-namespace-where-only-executions-should-run"
    serviceAccount:
      autoCreate: false
```

### Example: Multiple Namespaces

To allow Runner to support  

```yaml
  job:
    namespace: "non-default-namespace"
```

in the Test Workflow's spec (see [Test Workflows - Job and Pod Configuration](/articles/test-workflows-job-and-pod)), you can provide additional namespaces alongside the default one:

```yaml
execution:
  additionalNamespaces:
    non-default-namespace:
      serviceAccount:
        autoCreate: true
```

Commit message:

added refs to ServiceAccount example

docs/articles/multi-agent-runner-helm-chart.md, after:

# Installing Runner Agent with Helm Charts

You can install lightweight Runner Agent using `kubeshop/testkube-runner` Helm Chart.

## Creating Runner Agent for Helm Charts

To create Runner Agent, you can run `testkube create runner` command, like:

```sh
testkube create runner my-name --label my-label=my-value
```

After selecting the environment (unless you pass `--env env-id` parameter),
it will display information with agent ID and secret key:

```
ID:             tkcrun_55c1c5845a1fd20d9bf5de7737311959
Name:           my-name
Type:           Runner (reserved)
Created:        25 Apr 25 10:18 +0200 (0s)
Disabled:       no
Secret Key:     tkckey_run_6kivz9hvgoxwd9ihqq9xyhihk1y3qzua
Last Activity:  never
Last Version:
Last Namespace:
Environments:
    my-environment (tkcenv_9868d11cdb3ca577)
Labels:
   my-label: my-value
Policy:
   Required Matching Labels: name
```

## Basic installation

1. Add the Kubeshop Helm repository:
   ```sh
   helm repo add kubeshop https://kubeshop.github.io/helm-charts
   ```
2. If this repo already exists, run `helm repo update` to retrieve
   the `latest` versions of the packages.
   You can then run `helm search repo testkube` to see the charts.
3. Install the Helm Chart:
   ```sh
   helm upgrade --install \
     --create-namespace \
     --namespace my-runner \
     --set 'runner.id=<your:tkcrun_:runner_id>' \
     --set 'runner.orgId=<your:tkcorg_:organization_id>' \
     --set 'runner.secret=<your:tkckey_run_:key>' \
     --set 'cloud.url=agent.testkube.io:443' \
     my-runner kubeshop/testkube-runner
   ```

You can also use own `values.yaml` file, based on [our defaults](https://github.com/kubeshop/helm-charts/blob/main/charts/testkube-runner/values.yaml):

```yaml
runner:
  id: "<your:tkcrun_:runner_id>"
  orgId: "<your:tkcorg_:organization_id>"
  secret: "<your:tkckey_run_:key>"

cloud:
  url: "agent.testkube.io:443"
```

## Cookbook

There are common things that you may want to set up in your values.

### Install Runner in one namespace and run executions in another

To separate concerns, you may separate your runners from the execution:

```yaml
execution:
  default:
    namespace: my-execution-namespace
```

### Disable access to Kubernetes from executions

By default, your executions will use a ServiceAccount that has access to pods, jobs, and events.
It's required for [Parallel Steps](/articles/test-workflows-parallel) and [Services](/articles/test-workflows-services).

To disable it, you can disable auto-creation of ServiceAccount for executions:

```yaml
execution:
  default:
    serviceAccount:
      autoCreate: false
      # name: my-custom-service-account # you can also use your own service account
```

:::tip
Read more about [ServiceAccounts below](#service-accounts)
:::

### Support additional namespaces

You can also allow the runner to schedule in multiple namespaces.

In your `values.yaml` file:

```yaml
execution:
  additionalNamespaces:
    'custom-namespace':
      serviceAccount:
        autoCreate: false # set 'true' to allow parallel steps & services
        # name: my-custom-service-account # you can also use your own service account
```

Then, in your workflow configure:

```yaml
spec:
  job:
    namespace: custom-namespace
```

### Setting Global Template

For each runner, you may set a custom Global Template.
It will be used as the foundation for every execution in this Runner Agent.

It's useful for example to set up OpenShift's security context, that will be separate for each runner:

```yaml
globalTemplate:
  enabled: true
  spec:
   pod:
     securityContext:
     enabled: true
     fsGroup: 1000650001
     runAsUser: 1000650001
   container:
     securityContext:
       runAsUser: 1000650001
       runAsNonRoot: true
```

## Service Accounts

The Runner Agent Helm Chart creates two kinds of ServiceAccounts:

- `exec-sa-testkube` - ServiceAccount for the Execution Pods; it allows the Execution to schedule and monitor Pods for `services` and `parallel` syntaxes.
- `agent-sa-testkube` - ServiceAccount for Agent Pods; it allows the Agent to (1) create pods for executions, and (2) read configmaps/secrets in own namespace.

The `agent-sa-testkube` ServiceAccount needs to be in the Agent's namespace, as it's used by the Agent's Pod.
The `exec-sa-testkube` ServiceAccounts are deployed to the namespaces where the executions will run as they need to use them in the above situations.

:::note
The `-testkube` suffix in the ServiceAccount names above and below might differ based on the underlying Helm Chart release name.
:::

:::tip
See the [Chainsaw Example](/articles/examples/chainsaw-basic) to see how a custom ServiceAccount can be used in your Workflow.
:::

### Example: Using the same namespace for Agent and Executions

By default, we deploy both Agent and Executions to the same namespace the Helm Chart is released to. 
Then, `agent-sa-testkube` and `exec-sa-testkube` are deployed in that namespace. `agent-sa-testkube` has wider permissions and is used by Agent, 
`exec-sa-testkube` has smaller permissions and is used by Executions.

###  Example: Avoid ServiceAccount for the executions

If you are not using `services` and `parallel` syntax, you may want to set Helm Chart values to:

```yaml
execution:
  default:
    serviceAccount:
      autoCreate: false
```

This way, the executions will use default or specified ServiceAccount, that likely won't have access to i.e. reading pods (in opposite to auto-created one). 
This blocks the ability of using `services` and `parallel` though, unless you will provide service account name in the spec with

```yaml
  pod: 
    serviceAccountName: "my-name-or-i-e-agent-sa-testkube"
```

:::tip
Read more about Workflow `pod` configuration at [Test Workflows - Job and Pod Configuration](/articles/test-workflows-job-and-pod).
:::

### Example: Run executions in a different namespace than the Agent

For better security, you may isolate the executions to be running in a different namespace than the Agent. This way, you ensure that they 
cannot i.e. read Agent's data (like Agent Token), or anything else. Also, this could help to i.e. deploy multiple runners in the same namespace, 
while having the executions for each of them in a different one.

To achieve that, you can use such Helm Chart values:

```yaml
execution:
  default:
    namespace: "my-namespace-where-only-executions-should-run"
```

In such case:
- `agent-sa-testkube` ServiceAccount will still be deployed in the Helm Chart release namespace,
- `exec-sa-testkube` ServiceAccount will be deployed in `my-namespace-where-only-executions-should-run` namespace

### Example: Full Security

You can as well combine both cases - avoid `parallel`/`services` and deploy executions to a separate namespace. This way you have full isolation.

```yaml
execution:
  default:
    namespace: "my-namespace-where-only-executions-should-run"
    serviceAccount:
      autoCreate: false
```

### Example: Multiple Namespaces

To allow Runner to support  

```yaml
  job:
    namespace: "non-default-namespace"
```

in the Test Workflow's spec (see [Test Workflows - Job and Pod Configuration](/articles/test-workflows-job-and-pod)), you can provide additional namespaces alongside the default one:

```yaml
execution:
  additionalNamespaces:
    non-default-namespace:
      serviceAccount:
        autoCreate: true
```
