docs/articles/private-ca.md, before:

# Using a private certificate authority (CA)

Installations which must serve Testkube endpoints or Git repositories using
certificates signed by a private CA should use this guide to make sure Testkube
components trust the private CA.

## Configurations

To get started we need to create a bundle containing all the CA certificates we
would like the installation to trust.

After that you will need to create a secret with the CA bundle under the
`ca.crt` key in the namespace(s) with the Helm releases both for the agent and
the enterprise control plane.

```sh
kubectl -n <namespace> create secret generic <secret name> --from-file=ca.crt=<path to the file with the ca bundle>
```

Configure the following value in the `testkube-enterprise` chart:

```yaml
global:
    customCaSecretRef: <secret name>
    certificateProvider: ""
```

Configure the following values in the `testkube` chart:

```yaml
global:
    testWorkflows:
        globalTemplate:
            enabled: true
            spec:
                pod:
                    volumes:
                        - name: testkube-enterprise-ca
                          secret:
                              secretName: <secret name>
                              defaultMode: 420
                container:
                    env:
                        - name: SSL_CERT_DIR
                          value: /etc/testkube/certs/
                        - name: GIT_SSL_CAINFO
                          value: /etc/testkube/certs/testkube-custom-ca.pem
                    volumeMounts:
                        - name: testkube-enterprise-ca
                          mountPath: /etc/testkube/certs/testkube-custom-ca.pem
                          subPath: ca.crt
testkube-api:
  cloud:
    tls:
      customCaSecretRef: <secret name>
```

If you create Ingress configurations, add a secret with the certificate that was signed by the CA to each Ingress manifest.
```shell
testkube-cloud-api:
  api:
    tls:
      serveHTTPS: false
      tlsSecret:  <another secret name>

testkube-cloud-ui:
  ingress:
    tlsSecretName: <another secret name>

dex:
  ingress:
    - secretName: <another secret name>
      hosts:
        - <hostname>
        
minio:
  customIngress:
    tls:
      tlsSecret: <another secret name>
```
##
If you create an Istio Gateway, you need to deploy a certificate for all required domains there.

## Pulling from Git repositories

If you would like to be able to pull Git data from repositories served both by
GitHub (or any other host) and your own Git servers which utilize private CA
signed certificates you will need to bundle the root CA certificates for those
hosts by concatenating them into one CA bundle.

## Prebuilt executors

Should work out of the box with `customCaSecretRef` set.

## Container executors

Pulling from Git repositories should work with `customCaSecretRef` set, but if
the container executing the test must trust your private CA you will need to
bake your CAs certification into the right location inside your image.

## Workflows

With the global template specified above you should be able to both mount and
trust the CA bundle for pulling from Git and processing the results of the test
executions.

However, if the containers specified as part of the workflow require the trust
of your private CA then you will need to configure the container/pod in a
similar way as shown in the global template to mount the CA bundle to the right
location and/or if necessary specify an environment variable.

Commit message:

feat: specify custom ca key (#114)
* feat: specify custom ca key

* Apply suggestions from code review

Co-authored-by: Julianne Fermi <julianne@kubeshop.io>

---------

Co-authored-by: Julianne Fermi <julianne@kubeshop.io>

docs/articles/private-ca.md, after:

# Using a private certificate authority (CA)

Installations which must serve Testkube endpoints or Git repositories using
certificates signed by a private CA should use this guide to make sure Testkube
components trust the private CA.

## Configurations

To get started we need to create a bundle containing all the CA certificates we
would like the installation to trust.

After that you will need to create a secret with the CA bundle under the
`ca.crt` key in the namespace(s) with the Helm releases both for the agent and
the enterprise control plane.

```sh
kubectl -n <namespace> create secret generic <secret name> --from-file=ca.crt=<path to the file with the ca bundle>
```

:::tip

If your CA bundle secret is generated by an external system and you cannot
specify the key name in the secret, you can use `customCaSecretKey` to override
the default value of `ca.crt` with your key name, but then please make sure to
update the value accordingly in the rest of this guide.

:::

Configure the following value in the `testkube-enterprise` chart:

```yaml
global:
    customCaSecretRef: <secret name>
    customCaSecretKey: "ca.crt"
    certificateProvider: ""
```

Configure the following values in the `testkube` chart:

```yaml
global:
    testWorkflows:
        globalTemplate:
            enabled: true
            spec:
                pod:
                    volumes:
                        - name: testkube-enterprise-ca
                          secret:
                              secretName: <secret name>
                              defaultMode: 420
                container:
                    env:
                        - name: SSL_CERT_DIR
                          value: /etc/testkube/certs/
                        - name: GIT_SSL_CAINFO
                          value: /etc/testkube/certs/testkube-custom-ca.pem
                    volumeMounts:
                        - name: testkube-enterprise-ca
                          mountPath: /etc/testkube/certs/testkube-custom-ca.pem
                          # NOTE: If you overrode the key name using customCaSecretKey,
                          # then you should also update this subPath value.
                          subPath: ca.crt
testkube-api:
  cloud:
    tls:
      customCaSecretRef: <secret name>
      customCaSecretKey: "ca.crt"
```

If you create Ingress configurations, add a secret with the certificate that was signed by the CA to each Ingress manifest.
```shell
testkube-cloud-api:
  api:
    tls:
      serveHTTPS: false
      tlsSecret:  <another secret name>

testkube-cloud-ui:
  ingress:
    tlsSecretName: <another secret name>

dex:
  ingress:
    - secretName: <another secret name>
      hosts:
        - <hostname>

minio:
  customIngress:
    tls:
      tlsSecret: <another secret name>
```
##
If you create an Istio Gateway, you need to deploy a certificate for all required domains there.

## Pulling from Git repositories

If you would like to be able to pull Git data from repositories served both by
GitHub (or any other host) and your own Git servers which utilize private CA
signed certificates you will need to bundle the root CA certificates for those
hosts by concatenating them into one CA bundle.

## Prebuilt executors

Should work out of the box with `customCaSecretRef` set.

## Container executors

Pulling from Git repositories should work with `customCaSecretRef` set, but if
the container executing the test must trust your private CA you will need to
bake your CAs certification into the right location inside your image.

## Workflows

With the global template specified above you should be able to both mount and
trust the CA bundle for pulling from Git and processing the results of the test
executions.

However, if the containers specified as part of the workflow require the trust
of your private CA then you will need to configure the container/pod in a
similar way as shown in the global template to mount the CA bundle to the right
location and/or, if necessary, specify an environment variable.
