docs/articles/running-tests.md, before:

# Running Tests

Tests are stored in Kubernetes clusters as Custom Resources. Testkube tests are reusable and can get results with the use of kubectl testkube plugin or with an API.

## Running

Running tests looks the same for any type of test.
In this example, we have previously created a test with the name `api-incluster-test`.

### Standard Run Command

This is an example of the simplest run command:

```sh
testkube run test api-incluster-test
```

```sh title="Expected output:"
Type          : postman/collection
Name          : api-incluster-test
Execution ID  : 615d6398b046f8fbd3d955d4
Execution name: openly-full-bream

Test queued for execution
Use the following command to get test execution details:
$ kubectl testkube get execution 615d6398b046f8fbd3d955d4

Or watch test execution until complete:
$ kubectl testkube watch execution 615d6398b046f8fbd3d955d4

```

Testkube will inform us about possible commands to get test results:

- `testkube get execution 615d6398b046f8fbd3d955d4` to get execution details.
- `testkube watch execution 615d6398b046f8fbd3d955d4` to watch the current pending execution. Watch will also get details when a test is completed and is good for long running tests to lock your terminal until test execution completes.

## Run with Watch for Changes

If we want to wait until a test execution completes we can pass the `-f` flag (follow) to the test run command:

```sh
testkube run test api-incluster-test -f
```

```sh title="Expected output:"
Type          : postman/collection
Name          : api-incluster-test
Execution ID  : 615d7e1ab046f8fbd3d955d6
Execution name: monthly-sure-finch

Test queued for execution
Use the following command to get test execution details:
$ kubectl testkube get execution 615d7e1ab046f8fbd3d955d6

Or watch test execution until complete:
$ kubectl testkube watch execution 615d7e1ab046f8fbd3d955d6


Watching for changes
Status: pending, Duration: 222.387ms
Status: pending, Duration: 1.210689s
Status: pending, Duration: 2.201346s
Status: pending, Duration: 3.198539s
Status: success, Duration: 595ms

Getting results
Name: monthly-sure-finch, Status: success, Duration: 595ms
newman

API-Health

→ Health
  GET http://testkube-api-server:8088/health [200 OK, 124B, 282ms]
  ✓  Status code is 200

┌─────────────────────────┬────────────────────┬───────────────────┐
│                         │           executed │            failed │
├─────────────────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────┤
│              iterations │                  1 │                 0 │
├─────────────────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────┤
│                requests │                  1 │                 0 │
├─────────────────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────┤
│            test-scripts │                  2 │                 0 │
├─────────────────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────┤
│      prerequest-scripts │                  1 │                 0 │
├─────────────────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────┤
│              assertions │                  1 │                 0 │
├─────────────────────────┴────────────────────┴───────────────────┤
│ total run duration: 519ms                                        │
├──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│ total data received: 8B (approx)                                 │
├──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│ average response time: 282ms [min: 282ms, max: 282ms, s.d.: 0µs] │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
Use the following command to get test execution details:
$ kubectl testkube get execution 615d7e1ab046f8fbd3d955d6

Test execution completed in 595ms
```

This command will wait until the test execution completes.

### Passing Parameters

For some 'real world' tests, configuration variables are passed in order to run them on different environments or with different test configurations.

Let's assume that our example Cypress test needs the `testparam` parameter with the value `testvalue`.

This is done by using the `--variable` flag (or just `-v`). If you need to pass more parameters, either pass the values as a comma-separated string or simply pass multiple `-v` flags.

It's possible to pass parameters securely to the executed test. It's necessary to use the `--secret` flag,
which contains a key value pair - a name of the Kubernetes secret and a secret key.
It can be passed multiple times if needed.

```sh
kubectl testkube run test kubeshop-cypress -v testparam=testvalue -f --secret secret-name=secret-key
```

```sh title="Expected output:"
Type          : cypress/project
Name          : kubeshop-cypress
Execution ID  : 615d5372b046f8fbd3d955d2
Execution name: nominally-able-glider

Test queued for execution
Use the following command to get test execution details:
$ kubectl testkube get execution 615d5372b046f8fbd3d955d2

or watch test execution until complete:
$ kubectl testkube watch execution 615d5372b046f8fbd3d955d2


Watching for changes
Status: queued, Duration: 0s
Status: pending, Duration: 383.064ms
....
Status: pending, Duration: 1m45.405939s
Status: success, Duration: 1m45.405939s

Getting results
Name: nominally-able-glider, Status: success, Duration: 2562047h47m16.854775807s

====================================================================================================

  (Run Starting)

  ┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
  │ Cypress:    8.5.0                                                                              │
  │ Browser:    Electron 91 (headless)                                                             │
  │ Specs:      1 found (simple-test.js)                                                           │
  └────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘


────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

  Running:  simple-test.js                                                                  (1 of 1)

  (Results)

  ┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
  │ Tests:        1                                                                                │
  │ Passing:      1                                                                                │
  │ Failing:      0                                                                                │
  │ Pending:      0                                                                                │
  │ Skipped:      0                                                                                │
  │ Screenshots:  0                                                                                │
  │ Video:        true                                                                             │
  │ Duration:     19 seconds                                                                       │
  │ Spec Ran:     simple-test.js                                                                   │
  └────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘


  (Video)

  -  Started processing:  Compressing to 32 CRF
    Compression progress:  39%
    Compression progress:  81%
  -  Finished processing: /tmp/testkube-scripts531364188/repo/examples/cypress/videos/   (30 seconds)
                          simple-test.js.mp4

    Compression progress:  100%

====================================================================================================

  (Run Finished)


       Spec                                              Tests  Passing  Failing  Pending  Skipped
  ┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
  │ ✔  simple-test.js                           00:19        1        1        -        -        - │
  └────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
    ✔  All specs passed!                        00:19        1        1        -        -        -

Use the following command to get test execution details:
$ kubectl testkube get execution 615d5372b046f8fbd3d955d2

Test execution completed in 1m45.405939s
```

### Mapping Local Files

Local files can be set on the execution of a Testkube Test. Pass the file in the format `source_path:destination_path` using the flag `--copy-files`.

```sh
testkube run test maven-example-file-test --copy-files "/Users/local_user/local_maven_settings.xml:/tmp/settings.xml" --args "--settings" --args "/tmp/settings.xml" -v "TESTKUBE_MAVEN=true"
```

By default, there is a 10 second timeout limit on all requests on the client side and a 1 GB body size limit on the server side. To update the timeout, use `--upload-timeout` with [Go-compatible duration formats](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration).

### Injected Environment Variables

The following environment variables are automatically injected into each executed test pod:

DEBUG:                           if debug mode is on  
RUNNER_ENDPOINT:                 MinIO endpoint  
RUNNER_ACCESSKEYID:              MinIO access key id  
RUNNER_SECRETACCESSKEY:          MinIO secret access key  
RUNNER_REGION:                   MinIO region  
RUNNER_TOKEN:                    MinIO token  
RUNNER_SSL:                      if MinIO SSL is on  
RUNNER_SCRAPPERENABLED:          if scraping is on  
RUNNER_DATADIR:                  data directory  
RUNNER_CDEVENTS_TARGET:          CDEvents target endpoint  
RUNNER_COMPRESSARTIFACTS:        if artfifacts should be compressed  
RUNNER_PRO_MODE:                 pro mode  
RUNNER_PRO_API_KEY:              pro API key  
RUNNER_PRO_API_TLS_INSECURE:     if pro connection is insecure  
RUNNER_PRO_API_URL:              pro API URL 
RUNNER_PRO_CONNECTION_TIMEOUT:   pro connection timeout limit  
RUNNER_PRO_API_SKIP_VERIFY:      if pro connection TLS verification is off  
RUNNER_CLOUD_MODE:               DEPRECATED: please use RUNNER_PRO_MODE instead  
RUNNER_CLOUD_API_KEY:            DEPRECATED: please use RUNNER_PRO_API_KEY instead  
RUNNER_CLOUD_API_TLS_INSECURE:   DEPRECATED: please use RUNNER_PRO_API_TLS_INSECURE instead  
RUNNER_CLOUD_API_URL:            DEPRECATED: please use RUNNER_PRO_API_URL instead  
RUNNER_CLOUD_CONNECTION_TIMEOUT: DEPRECATED: please use RUNNER_PRO_CONNECTION_TIMEOUT instead  
RUNNER_CLOUD_API_SKIP_VERIFY:    DEPRECATED: please use RUNNER_PRO_API_SKIP_VERITY instead  
RUNNER_DASHBOARD_URI:            dashboard URI  
CI:                              CI flag  
RUNNER_CLUSTERID:                cluster id  
RUNNER_BUCKET:                   MinIO bucket  
RUNNER_WORKINGDIR:               working directory  
RUNNER_EXECUTIONID:              test execution ID  
RUNNER_TESTNAME:                 test name  
RUNNER_EXECUTIONNUMBER:          test execution number  
RUNNER_CONTEXTTYPE:              running context type  
RUNNER_CONTEXTDATA:              running context data  
RUNNER_APIURI:                   API URI   

## Summary

As we can see, running tests in a Kubernetes cluster is really easy with use of the Testkube kubectl plugin!

Commit message:

Add warning to legacy features docs
with a link to current documentation.

docs/articles/running-tests.md, after:

# Running Tests

:::warning
The features described in this document are being deprecated. You can find more details about the current Testkube features to perform these functions [here](../articles/legacy-features.md).
:::

Tests are stored in Kubernetes clusters as Custom Resources. Testkube tests are reusable and can get results with the use of kubectl testkube plugin or with an API.

## Running

Running tests looks the same for any type of test.
In this example, we have previously created a test with the name `api-incluster-test`.

### Standard Run Command

This is an example of the simplest run command:

```sh
testkube run test api-incluster-test
```

```sh title="Expected output:"
Type          : postman/collection
Name          : api-incluster-test
Execution ID  : 615d6398b046f8fbd3d955d4
Execution name: openly-full-bream

Test queued for execution
Use the following command to get test execution details:
$ kubectl testkube get execution 615d6398b046f8fbd3d955d4

Or watch test execution until complete:
$ kubectl testkube watch execution 615d6398b046f8fbd3d955d4

```

Testkube will inform us about possible commands to get test results:

- `testkube get execution 615d6398b046f8fbd3d955d4` to get execution details.
- `testkube watch execution 615d6398b046f8fbd3d955d4` to watch the current pending execution. Watch will also get details when a test is completed and is good for long running tests to lock your terminal until test execution completes.

## Run with Watch for Changes

If we want to wait until a test execution completes we can pass the `-f` flag (follow) to the test run command:

```sh
testkube run test api-incluster-test -f
```

```sh title="Expected output:"
Type          : postman/collection
Name          : api-incluster-test
Execution ID  : 615d7e1ab046f8fbd3d955d6
Execution name: monthly-sure-finch

Test queued for execution
Use the following command to get test execution details:
$ kubectl testkube get execution 615d7e1ab046f8fbd3d955d6

Or watch test execution until complete:
$ kubectl testkube watch execution 615d7e1ab046f8fbd3d955d6


Watching for changes
Status: pending, Duration: 222.387ms
Status: pending, Duration: 1.210689s
Status: pending, Duration: 2.201346s
Status: pending, Duration: 3.198539s
Status: success, Duration: 595ms

Getting results
Name: monthly-sure-finch, Status: success, Duration: 595ms
newman

API-Health

→ Health
  GET http://testkube-api-server:8088/health [200 OK, 124B, 282ms]
  ✓  Status code is 200

┌─────────────────────────┬────────────────────┬───────────────────┐
│                         │           executed │            failed │
├─────────────────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────┤
│              iterations │                  1 │                 0 │
├─────────────────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────┤
│                requests │                  1 │                 0 │
├─────────────────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────┤
│            test-scripts │                  2 │                 0 │
├─────────────────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────┤
│      prerequest-scripts │                  1 │                 0 │
├─────────────────────────┼────────────────────┼───────────────────┤
│              assertions │                  1 │                 0 │
├─────────────────────────┴────────────────────┴───────────────────┤
│ total run duration: 519ms                                        │
├──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│ total data received: 8B (approx)                                 │
├──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┤
│ average response time: 282ms [min: 282ms, max: 282ms, s.d.: 0µs] │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
Use the following command to get test execution details:
$ kubectl testkube get execution 615d7e1ab046f8fbd3d955d6

Test execution completed in 595ms
```

This command will wait until the test execution completes.

### Passing Parameters

For some 'real world' tests, configuration variables are passed in order to run them on different environments or with different test configurations.

Let's assume that our example Cypress test needs the `testparam` parameter with the value `testvalue`.

This is done by using the `--variable` flag (or just `-v`). If you need to pass more parameters, either pass the values as a comma-separated string or simply pass multiple `-v` flags.

It's possible to pass parameters securely to the executed test. It's necessary to use the `--secret` flag,
which contains a key value pair - a name of the Kubernetes secret and a secret key.
It can be passed multiple times if needed.

```sh
kubectl testkube run test kubeshop-cypress -v testparam=testvalue -f --secret secret-name=secret-key
```

```sh title="Expected output:"
Type          : cypress/project
Name          : kubeshop-cypress
Execution ID  : 615d5372b046f8fbd3d955d2
Execution name: nominally-able-glider

Test queued for execution
Use the following command to get test execution details:
$ kubectl testkube get execution 615d5372b046f8fbd3d955d2

or watch test execution until complete:
$ kubectl testkube watch execution 615d5372b046f8fbd3d955d2


Watching for changes
Status: queued, Duration: 0s
Status: pending, Duration: 383.064ms
....
Status: pending, Duration: 1m45.405939s
Status: success, Duration: 1m45.405939s

Getting results
Name: nominally-able-glider, Status: success, Duration: 2562047h47m16.854775807s

====================================================================================================

  (Run Starting)

  ┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
  │ Cypress:    8.5.0                                                                              │
  │ Browser:    Electron 91 (headless)                                                             │
  │ Specs:      1 found (simple-test.js)                                                           │
  └────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘


────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────

  Running:  simple-test.js                                                                  (1 of 1)

  (Results)

  ┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
  │ Tests:        1                                                                                │
  │ Passing:      1                                                                                │
  │ Failing:      0                                                                                │
  │ Pending:      0                                                                                │
  │ Skipped:      0                                                                                │
  │ Screenshots:  0                                                                                │
  │ Video:        true                                                                             │
  │ Duration:     19 seconds                                                                       │
  │ Spec Ran:     simple-test.js                                                                   │
  └────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘


  (Video)

  -  Started processing:  Compressing to 32 CRF
    Compression progress:  39%
    Compression progress:  81%
  -  Finished processing: /tmp/testkube-scripts531364188/repo/examples/cypress/videos/   (30 seconds)
                          simple-test.js.mp4

    Compression progress:  100%

====================================================================================================

  (Run Finished)


       Spec                                              Tests  Passing  Failing  Pending  Skipped
  ┌────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
  │ ✔  simple-test.js                           00:19        1        1        -        -        - │
  └────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
    ✔  All specs passed!                        00:19        1        1        -        -        -

Use the following command to get test execution details:
$ kubectl testkube get execution 615d5372b046f8fbd3d955d2

Test execution completed in 1m45.405939s
```

### Mapping Local Files

Local files can be set on the execution of a Testkube Test. Pass the file in the format `source_path:destination_path` using the flag `--copy-files`.

```sh
testkube run test maven-example-file-test --copy-files "/Users/local_user/local_maven_settings.xml:/tmp/settings.xml" --args "--settings" --args "/tmp/settings.xml" -v "TESTKUBE_MAVEN=true"
```

By default, there is a 10 second timeout limit on all requests on the client side and a 1 GB body size limit on the server side. To update the timeout, use `--upload-timeout` with [Go-compatible duration formats](https://pkg.go.dev/time#ParseDuration).

### Injected Environment Variables

The following environment variables are automatically injected into each executed test pod:

DEBUG:                           if debug mode is on  
RUNNER_ENDPOINT:                 MinIO endpoint  
RUNNER_ACCESSKEYID:              MinIO access key id  
RUNNER_SECRETACCESSKEY:          MinIO secret access key  
RUNNER_REGION:                   MinIO region  
RUNNER_TOKEN:                    MinIO token  
RUNNER_SSL:                      if MinIO SSL is on  
RUNNER_SCRAPPERENABLED:          if scraping is on  
RUNNER_DATADIR:                  data directory  
RUNNER_CDEVENTS_TARGET:          CDEvents target endpoint  
RUNNER_COMPRESSARTIFACTS:        if artfifacts should be compressed  
RUNNER_PRO_MODE:                 pro mode  
RUNNER_PRO_API_KEY:              pro API key  
RUNNER_PRO_API_TLS_INSECURE:     if pro connection is insecure  
RUNNER_PRO_API_URL:              pro API URL 
RUNNER_PRO_CONNECTION_TIMEOUT:   pro connection timeout limit  
RUNNER_PRO_API_SKIP_VERIFY:      if pro connection TLS verification is off  
RUNNER_CLOUD_MODE:               DEPRECATED: please use RUNNER_PRO_MODE instead  
RUNNER_CLOUD_API_KEY:            DEPRECATED: please use RUNNER_PRO_API_KEY instead  
RUNNER_CLOUD_API_TLS_INSECURE:   DEPRECATED: please use RUNNER_PRO_API_TLS_INSECURE instead  
RUNNER_CLOUD_API_URL:            DEPRECATED: please use RUNNER_PRO_API_URL instead  
RUNNER_CLOUD_CONNECTION_TIMEOUT: DEPRECATED: please use RUNNER_PRO_CONNECTION_TIMEOUT instead  
RUNNER_CLOUD_API_SKIP_VERIFY:    DEPRECATED: please use RUNNER_PRO_API_SKIP_VERITY instead  
RUNNER_DASHBOARD_URI:            dashboard URI  
CI:                              CI flag  
RUNNER_CLUSTERID:                cluster id  
RUNNER_BUCKET:                   MinIO bucket  
RUNNER_WORKINGDIR:               working directory  
RUNNER_EXECUTIONID:              test execution ID  
RUNNER_TESTNAME:                 test name  
RUNNER_EXECUTIONNUMBER:          test execution number  
RUNNER_CONTEXTTYPE:              running context type  
RUNNER_CONTEXTDATA:              running context data  
RUNNER_APIURI:                   API URI   

## Summary

As we can see, running tests in a Kubernetes cluster is really easy with use of the Testkube kubectl plugin!
