docs/articles/scheduling-tests.mdx, before:

# Scheduling Workflows

Testkube supports a cron-based scheduling mechanism that allows you to run your Test Workflows at desired intervals/times.

## Scheduling a Workflow by updating the Workflow Definition

:::info

Schedules are defined in the Workflow YAML under a `spec.events.cronjob` property - [Read More](/articles/test-workflows#events-and-scheduling).

:::

The easiest way to schedule your Workflow is to modify the Workflow definition and add the corresponding
`spec.events.cronjob` property, for example the below workflow will be scheduled to run on a daily basis at 3 am:

```yaml
kind: TestWorkflow
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
metadata:
  name: distributed-k6-demo
  namespace: testkube
spec:
  events:
  - cronjob:
      cron: 0 3 * * *
...
```

:::tip
Testkube's schedule data format is the same that is used to define Kubernetes Cron jobs,
visit [Wikipedia Cron format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron) for details.
:::

## Schedule a Workflow from the Testkube Dashboard

You can also schedule a Test Workflow from the Testkube Dashboard under the Workflow Settings/Scheduling Panel:

![Workflow Scheduling](images/workflow-scheduling.png)

This will add the corresponding YAML to the Workflow definition:

![Workflow Scheduling Definition](images/workflow-scheduling-definition.png)

:::info

The Dashboard will only allow you to manage _one_ schedule, if you want to define multiple schedules, you will have
to do this directly in the Workflow Definition.

:::

## Scheduling Architecture

Testkube uses the scheduling engine from Kubernetes Cron jobs for scheduling your Workflow Executions.
For each schedule, a special cron job is created from this [template](https://github.com/kubeshop/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/testkube-operator/cronjob-template.yml).

Technically, it is a callback to the Testkube API server method, launching the corresponding Workflow execution.
The call is executed using curl command from the image `curlimages/curl`, please make sure it's available in your Kubernetes cluster.

Commit message:

feat: cron timezone
Signed-off-by: Vladislav Sukhin <vladislav@kubeshop.io>

docs/articles/scheduling-tests.mdx, after:

# Scheduling Workflows

Testkube supports a cron-based scheduling mechanism that allows you to run your Test Workflows at desired intervals/times.

## Scheduling a Workflow by updating the Workflow Definition

:::info

Schedules are defined in the Workflow YAML under a `spec.events.cronjob` property - [Read More](/articles/test-workflows#events-and-scheduling).

:::

The easiest way to schedule your Workflow is to modify the Workflow definition and add the corresponding
`spec.events.cronjob` property, for example the below workflow will be scheduled to run on a daily basis at 3 am:

```yaml
kind: TestWorkflow
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
metadata:
  name: distributed-k6-demo
  namespace: testkube
spec:
  events:
  - cronjob:
      cron: 0 3 * * *
      timezone: America/New_York
...
```

:::tip
Testkube uses the same scheduling format as Kubernetes Cron jobs. For details on the cron expression syntax, 
refer to the [Wikipedia Cron format](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Cron) for details.

The timezone value in Testkube is also based on the tz database, consistent with Kubernetes Cron jobs. 
For a list of supported time zones, see the [List of tz database time zones](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/List_of_tz_database_time_zones) for details.
:::

## Schedule a Workflow from the Testkube Dashboard

You can also schedule a Test Workflow from the Testkube Dashboard under the Workflow Settings/Scheduling Panel:

![Workflow Scheduling](images/workflow-scheduling.png)

This will add the corresponding YAML to the Workflow definition:

![Workflow Scheduling Definition](images/workflow-scheduling-definition.png)

:::info

The Dashboard will only allow you to manage _one_ schedule, if you want to define multiple schedules, you will have
to do this directly in the Workflow Definition.

:::

## Scheduling Architecture

Testkube uses the scheduling engine from Kubernetes Cron jobs for scheduling your Workflow Executions.
For each schedule, a special cron job is created from this [template](https://github.com/kubeshop/helm-charts/tree/main/charts/testkube-operator/cronjob-template.yml).

Technically, it is a callback to the Testkube API server method, launching the corresponding Workflow execution.
The call is executed using curl command from the image `curlimages/curl`, please make sure it's available in your Kubernetes cluster.

As of May 1, 2025, the Testkube Agent includes a built-in cron scheduler, now used as the default mode, replacing Kubernetes Cron jobs.
