docs/articles/templates.mdx, before:

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

# Templates

Templates allow you to store templates for other resources used in Testkube. We support a list of templates job | container | cronjob | scraper | pvc | webhook | pod. To define templates in Testkube, you'll need to provide a template body (in Golang template format) and a type of the template.

Testkube provides access to the [Sprig](https://masterminds.github.io/sprig/) functions library in templates.

## Creating a Template

The template can be created using the API, CLI, or a Custom Resource.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="api" label="API">
If you prefer to use the API for creating a template, please visit the Core OSS API spec for templates in the doc below.

[OpenAPI spec](../openapi.md)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="cli" label="CLI">
Templates can be created with the Testkube CLI using the `create template` command.

```sh
kubectl testkube create template --name job-template --template-type job --body job-template.yaml
```

`--name` - Your template name (in this case `job-template`).
`--template-type` - Your template type (in this case `job` for prebuilt executors).
`--body` - A path to the file with job template content

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="crd" label="Custom Resource">

```yaml title="template.yaml"
apiVersion: tests.testkube.io/v1
kind: Template
metadata:
  name: job-template
  namespace: testkube
spec:
  type: job
  body: <YOUR_TEMPLATE_BODY>
```

Where `<YOUR_TEMPLATE_BODY>` should be replaced with the Kubernetes job definition in Golang template format.

And then apply with:

```sh
kubectl apply -f template.yaml
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

### Using Templates

You will need to refer to a template in the corresponding reference field of the resource.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="api" label="API">

Check templateReference fields in the Core OSS API spec. For example, Test -> executionRequest -> jobTemplateReference field.
[OpenAPI spec](../openapi.md)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="cli" label="CLI">

Templates can be created with the Testkube CLI using the `create template` command.

```sh
kubectl testkube create test --name template-test --type k6/script --job-template-reference=job-template --test-content-type git --git-uri  "https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube.git" --git-branch main --git-path test/k6/executor-tests/k6-smoke-test.js
```

`--name` - Your test name (in this case `template-test`).
`--type` - Your test type (in this case `k6/script`).
`--job-template-reference` - Job template reference (in this case `job-template`).
`--test-content-type` - Test content type (in this case `git`).
`--git-uri` - Git URI to repository (in this case `https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube.git`).
`--git-branch` - Git branch to use (in this case `main`).
`--git-path` - Git path to the test (in this case `test/k6/executor-tests/k6-smoke-test.js`).

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="crd" label="Custom Resource">

```yaml title="test.yaml"
apiVersion: tests.testkube.io/v3
kind: Test
metadata:
  name: template-test
  namespace: testkube
spec:
  type: k6/script
  content:
    type: git
    repository:
      type: git
      uri: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube.git
      branch: main
      path: test/k6/executor-tests/k6-smoke-test.js
      authType: basic
  executionRequest:
    jobTemplateReference: job-template
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

Add warning to legacy features docs
with a link to current documentation.

docs/articles/templates.mdx, after:

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

# Templates

:::warning
The features described in this document are being deprecated. You can find more details about the current Testkube features to perform these functions [here](../articles/legacy-features.md).
:::

Templates allow you to store templates for other resources used in Testkube. We support a list of templates job | container | cronjob | scraper | pvc | webhook | pod. To define templates in Testkube, you'll need to provide a template body (in Golang template format) and a type of the template.

Testkube provides access to the [Sprig](https://masterminds.github.io/sprig/) functions library in templates.

## Creating a Template

The template can be created using the API, CLI, or a Custom Resource.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="api" label="API">
If you prefer to use the API for creating a template, please visit the Core OSS API spec for templates in the doc below.

[OpenAPI spec](../openapi.md)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="cli" label="CLI">
Templates can be created with the Testkube CLI using the `create template` command.

```sh
kubectl testkube create template --name job-template --template-type job --body job-template.yaml
```

`--name` - Your template name (in this case `job-template`).
`--template-type` - Your template type (in this case `job` for prebuilt executors).
`--body` - A path to the file with job template content

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="crd" label="Custom Resource">

```yaml title="template.yaml"
apiVersion: tests.testkube.io/v1
kind: Template
metadata:
  name: job-template
  namespace: testkube
spec:
  type: job
  body: <YOUR_TEMPLATE_BODY>
```

Where `<YOUR_TEMPLATE_BODY>` should be replaced with the Kubernetes job definition in Golang template format.

And then apply with:

```sh
kubectl apply -f template.yaml
```

</TabItem>

</Tabs>

### Using Templates

You will need to refer to a template in the corresponding reference field of the resource.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="api" label="API">

Check templateReference fields in the Core OSS API spec. For example, Test -> executionRequest -> jobTemplateReference field.
[OpenAPI spec](../openapi.md)

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="cli" label="CLI">

Templates can be created with the Testkube CLI using the `create template` command.

```sh
kubectl testkube create test --name template-test --type k6/script --job-template-reference=job-template --test-content-type git --git-uri  "https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube.git" --git-branch main --git-path test/k6/executor-tests/k6-smoke-test.js
```

`--name` - Your test name (in this case `template-test`).
`--type` - Your test type (in this case `k6/script`).
`--job-template-reference` - Job template reference (in this case `job-template`).
`--test-content-type` - Test content type (in this case `git`).
`--git-uri` - Git URI to repository (in this case `https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube.git`).
`--git-branch` - Git branch to use (in this case `main`).
`--git-path` - Git path to the test (in this case `test/k6/executor-tests/k6-smoke-test.js`).

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="crd" label="Custom Resource">

```yaml title="test.yaml"
apiVersion: tests.testkube.io/v3
kind: Test
metadata:
  name: template-test
  namespace: testkube
spec:
  type: k6/script
  content:
    type: git
    repository:
      type: git
      uri: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube.git
      branch: main
      path: test/k6/executor-tests/k6-smoke-test.js
      authType: basic
  executionRequest:
    jobTemplateReference: job-template
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
