docs/articles/test-triggers.mdx, before:

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

# Triggers

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="dashboard" label="Dashboard" default>

Testkube allows you to automate running tests and test suites by defining triggers on certain events for various Kubernetes resources.

## What is a Testkube Test Trigger?

In generic terms, a _Trigger_ defines an _action_ which will be executed for a given _execution_ when a certain _event_ on a specific _resource_ occurs. For example, we could define a _TestTrigger_ which _runs_ a _Test_ when a _ConfigMap_ gets _modified_.

Watch our [video guide](#video-tutorial) on using Testkube Test Triggers to perform **Asynchronous Testing in Kubernetes**.

## Creating Test Triggers in the Testkube Dashboard

Click on the lightening bolt icon on the left of the Testkube IDE to open the dialog to create test triggers. Any current test triggers will be listed and the `Create a new trigger` button is at the top right of the screen.

![Trigger Screen](../img/trigger-screen-1.14.png)

The `Create new trigger` dialog opens:

![Create Trigger](../img/create-trigger-1.14.png)

Input the condition that will cause the trigger and click `Next`.

Input the action that will be the result of the trigger condition happening and click `Create`.

![Create Trigger Action](../img/create-trigger-action-1.14.png)

Get all the details in the video below!

## Video Tutorial

<iframe
  width="100%"
  height="350px"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/t4V6E9rQ5W4"
  title="YouTube video player"
  frameborder="0"
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="cli" label="CLI">

Testkube allows you to automate running tests and test suites by defining triggers on certain events for various Kubernetes resources.

## What is a Testkube Test Trigger?

In generic terms, a _Trigger_ defines an _action_ which will be executed for a given _execution_ when a certain _event_ on a specific _resource_ occurs having a given _concurrencyPolicy_. For example, we could define a _TestTrigger_ which _runs_ a _Test_ when a _ConfigMap_ gets _modified_.

Watch our [video guide](#video-tutorial) on using Testkube Test Triggers to perform **Asynchronous Testing in Kubernetes**.

## Custom Resource Definition Model

### Selectors

The `resourceSelector` and `testSelector` fields support selecting resources either by name or using
the Kubernetes [Label Selector](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/#resources-that-support-set-based-requirements).

Each selector should specify the `namespace` of the object, otherwise the namespace defaults to `testkube`.

```
selector := resourceSelector | testSelector
```

#### Name Selector

Name selectors are used when we want to select a specific resource in a specific namespace.

```yaml
selector:
  name: Kubernetes object name
  nameRegex: Kubernetes object name regex (for example, "test.*")
  namespace: Kubernetes object namespace (default is **testkube**)
```

#### Label Selector

Label selectors are used when we want to select a group of resources in a specific namespace.

```yaml
selector:
  namespace: Kubernetes object namespace (default is **testkube**)
  labelSelector:
    matchLabels: map of key-value pairs
    matchExpressions:
      - key: label name
        operator: [In | NotIn | Exists | DoesNotExist
        values: list of values
```

### Resource Conditions

Resource Conditions allows triggers to be defined based on the status conditions for a specific resource.

```yaml
conditionSpec:
  timeout: Duration in seconds the test trigger waits for conditions, until its stopped.
  delay: Duration in seconds the test trigger waits between condition checks.
  conditions:
    - type: test trigger condition type
      status: test trigger condition status, supported values - True, False, Unknown
      reason: test trigger condition reason
      ttl: test trigger condition ttl
```

### Resource Probes

Resource Probes allows triggers to be defined based on the probe status.

```yaml
probeSpec:
  timeout: Duration in seconds the test trigger waits for probes, until its stopped.
  delay: Duration in seconds the test trigger waits between probes.
  probes:
    - scheme: test trigger condition probe scheme to connect to host, default is http
      host: test trigger condition probe host, default is pod ip or service name
      path: test trigger condition probe path to check, default is /
      port: test trigger condition probe port to connect
      headers: test trigger condition probe headers to submit
```

### Supported Values

- **Resource** - pod, deployment, statefulset, daemonset, service, ingress, event, configmap
- **Action** - run
- **Event** - created, modified, deleted 
- **Cause** (can be used instead of **Event**)
  - For deployments - deployment-scale-update, deployment-image-update, deployment-env-update, deployment-containers-modified
  - For Testkube events - event-start-test, event-end-test-success, event-end-test-failed, event-end-test-aborted, event-end-test-timeout, event-start-testsuite, event-end-testsuite-success, event-end-testsuite-failed, event-end-testsuite-aborted, event-end-testsuite-timeout, event-queue-testworkflow, event-start-testworkflow, event-end-testworkflow-success, event-end-testworkflow-failed, event-end-testworkflow-aborted, event-created, event-updated, event-deleted
- **Execution** - test, testsuite, testworkflow
- **ConcurrencyPolicy** - allow, forbid, replace

## Example

Here is an example for a **Test Trigger** _default/testtrigger-example_ which runs the **TestSuite** _frontend/sanity-test_
when a **deployment** containing the label **testkube.io/tier: backend** gets **modified** and also has the conditions **Progressing: True: NewReplicaSetAvailable** and **Available: True**.

```yaml
apiVersion: tests.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestTrigger
metadata:
  name: testtrigger-example
  namespace: default
spec:
  resource: deployment
  resourceSelector:
    labelSelector:
      matchLabels:
        testkube.io/tier: backend
  event: modified
  conditionSpec:
    timeout: 100
    delay: 2
    conditions:
      - type: Progressing
        status: "True"
        reason: "NewReplicaSetAvailable"
        ttl: 60
      - type: Available
        status: "True"
  probeSpec:
    timeout: 50
    delay: 1
    probes:
      - scheme: http
        host: testkube-api-server
        path: /health
        port: 8088
        headers:
          X-Token: "12345"
      - host: testkube-dashboard
        port: 8080
  action: run
  execution: testsuite
  concurrencyPolicy: allow
  testSelector:
    name: sanity-test
    namespace: frontend
```

You can define **Test Trigger** for Testkube cluster events. 
In below example, if **Test** `k6-executor-smoke` is completed succesfully, then we run **TestSuite** `container-executor-postman-smoke-tests`

```yaml                                     
apiVersion: tests.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestTrigger
metadata:
  name: testtrigger-event
  namespace: testkube
spec:
  resource: event
  resourceSelector:
    name: k6-executor-smoke
  event: event-end-test-success
  action: run
  execution: testsuite
  testSelector:
    name: container-executor-postman-smoke-tests
    namespace: testkube
```

## Architecture

Testkube uses [Informers](https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/client-go/informers) to watch Kubernetes resources and register handlers
on certain actions on the watched Kubernetes resources.

Informers are a reliable, scalable and fault-tolerant Kubernetes concept where each informer registers handlers with the
Kubernetes API and gets notified by Kubernetes on each event on the watched resources.

## API

Testkube exposes CRUD operations on test triggers in the REST API. Check out the [Open API](../openapi.md) docs for more info.

## Injected Environment Variables

The following environment variables are automatically injected into each triggered test pod:

WATCHER_EVENT_RESOURCE: resource type  
WATCHER_EVENT_NAME: resource name  
WATCHER_EVENT_NAMESPACE: resource namespace  
WATCHER_EVENT_EVENT_TYPE: event type

## Video Tutorial

<iframe
  width="100%"
  height="350px"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/t4V6E9rQ5W4"
  title="YouTube video player"
  frameborder="0"
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

Commit message:

docs: disable test trigger flag

docs/articles/test-triggers.mdx, after:

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

# Triggers

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="dashboard" label="Dashboard" default>

Testkube allows you to automate running tests and test suites by defining triggers on certain events for various Kubernetes resources.

## What is a Testkube Test Trigger?

In generic terms, a _Trigger_ defines an _action_ which will be executed for a given _execution_ when a certain _event_ on a specific _resource_ occurs. For example, we could define a _TestTrigger_ which _runs_ a _Test_ when a _ConfigMap_ gets _modified_.

Watch our [video guide](#video-tutorial) on using Testkube Test Triggers to perform **Asynchronous Testing in Kubernetes**.

## Creating Test Triggers in the Testkube Dashboard

Click on the lightening bolt icon on the left of the Testkube IDE to open the dialog to create test triggers. Any current test triggers will be listed and the `Create a new trigger` button is at the top right of the screen.

![Trigger Screen](../img/trigger-screen-1.14.png)

The `Create new trigger` dialog opens:

![Create Trigger](../img/create-trigger-1.14.png)

Input the condition that will cause the trigger and click `Next`.

Input the action that will be the result of the trigger condition happening and click `Create`.

![Create Trigger Action](../img/create-trigger-action-1.14.png)

Get all the details in the video below!

## Video Tutorial

<iframe
  width="100%"
  height="350px"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/t4V6E9rQ5W4"
  title="YouTube video player"
  frameborder="0"
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

</TabItem>

<TabItem value="cli" label="CLI">

Testkube allows you to automate running tests and test suites by defining triggers on certain events for various Kubernetes resources.

## What is a Testkube Test Trigger?

In generic terms, a _Trigger_ defines an _action_ which will be executed for a given _execution_ when a certain _event_ on a specific _resource_ occurs having a given _concurrencyPolicy_. For example, we could define a _TestTrigger_ which _runs_ a _Test_ when a _ConfigMap_ gets _modified_.

Watch our [video guide](#video-tutorial) on using Testkube Test Triggers to perform **Asynchronous Testing in Kubernetes**.

## Custom Resource Definition Model

### Selectors

The `resourceSelector` and `testSelector` fields support selecting resources either by name or using
the Kubernetes [Label Selector](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/overview/working-with-objects/labels/#resources-that-support-set-based-requirements).

Each selector should specify the `namespace` of the object, otherwise the namespace defaults to `testkube`.

```
selector := resourceSelector | testSelector
```

#### Name Selector

Name selectors are used when we want to select a specific resource in a specific namespace.

```yaml
selector:
  name: Kubernetes object name
  nameRegex: Kubernetes object name regex (for example, "test.*")
  namespace: Kubernetes object namespace (default is **testkube**)
```

#### Label Selector

Label selectors are used when we want to select a group of resources in a specific namespace.

```yaml
selector:
  namespace: Kubernetes object namespace (default is **testkube**)
  labelSelector:
    matchLabels: map of key-value pairs
    matchExpressions:
      - key: label name
        operator: [In | NotIn | Exists | DoesNotExist
        values: list of values
```

### Resource Conditions

Resource Conditions allows triggers to be defined based on the status conditions for a specific resource.

```yaml
conditionSpec:
  timeout: Duration in seconds the test trigger waits for conditions, until its stopped.
  delay: Duration in seconds the test trigger waits between condition checks.
  conditions:
    - type: test trigger condition type
      status: test trigger condition status, supported values - True, False, Unknown
      reason: test trigger condition reason
      ttl: test trigger condition ttl
```

### Resource Probes

Resource Probes allows triggers to be defined based on the probe status.

```yaml
probeSpec:
  timeout: Duration in seconds the test trigger waits for probes, until its stopped.
  delay: Duration in seconds the test trigger waits between probes.
  probes:
    - scheme: test trigger condition probe scheme to connect to host, default is http
      host: test trigger condition probe host, default is pod ip or service name
      path: test trigger condition probe path to check, default is /
      port: test trigger condition probe port to connect
      headers: test trigger condition probe headers to submit
```

### Supported Values

- **Resource** - pod, deployment, statefulset, daemonset, service, ingress, event, configmap
- **Action** - run
- **Event** - created, modified, deleted 
- **Cause** (can be used instead of **Event**)
  - For deployments - deployment-scale-update, deployment-image-update, deployment-env-update, deployment-containers-modified
  - For Testkube events - event-start-test, event-end-test-success, event-end-test-failed, event-end-test-aborted, event-end-test-timeout, event-start-testsuite, event-end-testsuite-success, event-end-testsuite-failed, event-end-testsuite-aborted, event-end-testsuite-timeout, event-queue-testworkflow, event-start-testworkflow, event-end-testworkflow-success, event-end-testworkflow-failed, event-end-testworkflow-aborted, event-created, event-updated, event-deleted
- **Execution** - test, testsuite, testworkflow
- **ConcurrencyPolicy** - allow, forbid, replace

## Example

Here is an example for a **Test Trigger** _default/testtrigger-example_ which runs the **TestSuite** _frontend/sanity-test_
when a **deployment** containing the label **testkube.io/tier: backend** gets **modified** and also has the conditions **Progressing: True: NewReplicaSetAvailable** and **Available: True**.

```yaml
apiVersion: tests.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestTrigger
metadata:
  name: testtrigger-example
  namespace: default
spec:
  resource: deployment
  resourceSelector:
    labelSelector:
      matchLabels:
        testkube.io/tier: backend
  event: modified
  conditionSpec:
    timeout: 100
    delay: 2
    conditions:
      - type: Progressing
        status: "True"
        reason: "NewReplicaSetAvailable"
        ttl: 60
      - type: Available
        status: "True"
  probeSpec:
    timeout: 50
    delay: 1
    probes:
      - scheme: http
        host: testkube-api-server
        path: /health
        port: 8088
        headers:
          X-Token: "12345"
      - host: testkube-dashboard
        port: 8080
  action: run
  execution: testsuite
  concurrencyPolicy: allow
  testSelector:
    name: sanity-test
    namespace: frontend
  disabled: false
```

You can define **Test Trigger** for Testkube cluster events. 
In below example, if **Test** `k6-executor-smoke` is completed succesfully, then we run **TestSuite** `container-executor-postman-smoke-tests`

```yaml                                     
apiVersion: tests.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestTrigger
metadata:
  name: testtrigger-event
  namespace: testkube
spec:
  resource: event
  resourceSelector:
    name: k6-executor-smoke
  event: event-end-test-success
  action: run
  execution: testsuite
  testSelector:
    name: container-executor-postman-smoke-tests
    namespace: testkube
```

## Disabling Test Triggers

Disabling test triggers can be helpful to test your configuration during the development. Testkube lets you disable them via the API or modifying the CRD directly specifying `disabled` field value as `true`. By default, test triggers are enabled on creation.

## Architecture

Testkube uses [Informers](https://pkg.go.dev/k8s.io/client-go/informers) to watch Kubernetes resources and register handlers
on certain actions on the watched Kubernetes resources.

Informers are a reliable, scalable and fault-tolerant Kubernetes concept where each informer registers handlers with the
Kubernetes API and gets notified by Kubernetes on each event on the watched resources.

## API

Testkube exposes CRUD operations on test triggers in the REST API. Check out the [Open API](../openapi.md) docs for more info.

## Injected Environment Variables

The following environment variables are automatically injected into each triggered test pod:

WATCHER_EVENT_RESOURCE: resource type  
WATCHER_EVENT_NAME: resource name  
WATCHER_EVENT_NAMESPACE: resource namespace  
WATCHER_EVENT_EVENT_TYPE: event type

## Video Tutorial

<iframe
  width="100%"
  height="350px"
  src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/t4V6E9rQ5W4"
  title="YouTube video player"
  frameborder="0"
  allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share"
  allowfullscreen
></iframe>

</TabItem>
</Tabs>
