docs/articles/test-workflows-test-suites.md, before:

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

# Test Workflows - Test Suites

import RequiresCommercialWorkflows from "./_commercial-workflows-note.mdx"

<RequiresCommercialWorkflows/>

With Test Workflows it is possible to run downstream Test Workflows and Tests with `execute` operation,
similarly to what you can do in Test Suites.

## Advantages over original Test Suite

As it is regular Test Workflow, where a single step is dispatching downstream Test Workflows and Tests,
the execution is very flexible. You can:

* Fetch input data before (i.e. by using `curl`/`wget` to download data, or fetching Git repository)
* Run setup operations (i.e. start shared instance of database, or generate API key)
* Process the results (i.e. by notifying about the status)
* Run other tests based on the previous results
* Trigger Workflows in other environments
* Nest workflows - workflow triggering workflow(s), triggering other workflow(s)

:::warning

Test Workflows is our long-term solution, so keep in mind that the original Test Suites are being deprecated - [Read More   ](/articles/legacy-features).

:::

## Syntax

You have to use `execute` operation in the step, and provide definition of the Test Workflows to run - [Schema Reference](/articles/crds/testworkflows.testkube.io-v1#stepexecute).

:::tip

The Testkube Dashboard contains a visual builder for creating Composite Workflows -
[Read More](/articles/testkube-dashboard-workflows-overview#creating-a-workflow-by-combining-existing-workflows)

:::

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="yaml" label="YAML" default>

```yaml
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestWorkflow
metadata:
  name: example-test-suite
spec:
  steps:
  - execute:
      workflows:
      - name: example-distributed-k6
        description: Run {{ index + 1 }} of {{ count }}
        count: 2
        config:
          vus: 8
          duration: 1s
          workers: 2
      - name: example-sharded-cypress
      tests:
      - name: example-test
        description: Example without request
      - name: example-test
        description: Example with env variables
        executionRequest:
          variables:
            SOME_VARIABLE:
              type: basic
              name: SOME_VARIABLE
              value: some-value
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="log" label="Log Output">

![example-test-suite.png](../img/example-test-suite.png)

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Running Test Workflows

To run Test Workflow as part of the `execute` step, you have to add its reference in the `workflows` list.

You need to provide `name`, along with optional `config` values for parametrization.

### Running Tests

:::warning
Tests are being deprecated from Testkube - so only use this possibility if/while transitioning to Workflows
- [Read More](legacy-features.md).
:::

To run Tests as part of the `execute` step, you have to add its reference in the `tests` list.

You need to provide `name`, along with optional `executionRequest` values for parametrization,
that are similar to the regular Test execution request.

### Controlling the concurrency level

You can use `parallelism` property to control how many Test Workflows and Tests will be running at once.

In example, to run all the downstream jobs sequentially, you can use `parallelism: 1`.
It affects jobs instantiated by [**matrix and sharding**](./test-workflows-matrix-and-sharding.md) properties (like `count`) too.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="yaml" label="YAML" default>

```yaml
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestWorkflow
metadata:
  name: example-sequential-test-suite
spec:
  steps:
  - execute:
      parallelism: 1
      workflows:
      - name: example-distributed-k6
        count: 2
        config:
          vus: 8
          duration: 1s
          workers: 2
      - name: example-sharded-cypress
      tests:
      - name: example-test
        count: 5
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="log" label="Log Output">

![example-sequential-test-suite.png](../img/example-sequential-test-suite.png)

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Nesting workflows
Workflows can be nested - workflow can execute workflow(s) executing other workflow(s). [**Parallelism**](#controlling-the-concurrency-level) can then be used to control the execution flow.

Example:

Tool-specific workflow (in this case k6 - executing multiple workflows for different cases)
```yaml
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestWorkflow
metadata:
  name: k6-workflow-suite
spec:
  steps:
  - execute:
      parallelism: 2
      workflows:
      - name: k6-workflow-smoke
      - name: k6-workflow-smoke-template
      - name: k6-workflow-smoke-template-without-checkout-step
      - name: k6-workflow-smoke-artifacts
      - name: distributed-k6-workflow-smoke
      - name: distributed-k6-workflow-smoke-artifacts
```

That can be executed from another workflow
```yaml
kind: TestWorkflow
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
metadata:
  name: tw-suite-full
spec:
  steps:
  - execute:
      parallelism: 2
      workflows:
      - name: artillery-workflow-suite
      - name: cypress-workflow-suite
      - name: gradle-workflow-suite
      - name: jmeter-workflow-suite
      - name: k6-workflow-suite # workflow from the example
      - name: maven-workflow-suite
      - name: playwright-workflow-suite
      - name: postman-workflow-suite
      - name: soapui-workflow-suite
```

## Passing input from files

It may happen that you will need to pass information from the file system. You can either pass the files using Test Workflow expressions (like `file("./file-content.txt")`) or using a `tarball` syntax.

### Specific files

You can easily use Test Workflow expressions to fetch some files and send them as a configuration variable:

```yaml
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestWorkflow
metadata:
  name: example-test-suite-with-file-input
spec:
  content:
    git:
      uri: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube
      revision: main
      paths:
      - test/k6/executor-tests/k6-smoke-test-without-envs.js
  steps:
  - execute:
      workflows:
      - name: example-distributed-k6
        config:
          vus: 8
          duration: 1s
          workers: 2
          script: '{{ file("/data/repo/test/k6/executor-tests/k6-smoke-test-without-envs.js") }}'
```

### Multiple files transfer

To transfer multiple files, similarly to `transfer` in [**Parallel Steps**](./test-workflows-parallel.md#copying-content-inside),
you can use a `tarball` syntax that will pack selected files and return the URL to download them:

```yaml
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestWorkflow
metadata:
  name: example-test-suite-with-file-input-packaged
spec:
  content:
    git:
      uri: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube
      revision: main
      paths:
      - test/k6/executor-tests/k6-smoke-test-without-envs.js
  steps:
  - execute:
      workflows:
      - name: example-test-reading-files
        tarball:
          scripts:
            from: /data/repo
        config:
          input: '{{ tarball.scripts.url }}'
```

You can later use i.e. `content.tarball` to unpack them in destination test:

```yaml
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestWorkflow
metadata:
  name: example-test-reading-files
spec:
  config:
    input: {type: string}
  content:
    tarball:
    - url: "{{ config.input }}" # extract provided tarball
      path: "/data/repo"        # to local /data/repo directory (or any other)
  steps:
  - shell: tree /data/repo
```

### Matrix and sharding

The `execute` operation supports matrix and sharding, to run multiple replicas and/or distribute the load across multiple runs.
It is supported by regular matrix/sharding properties (`matrix`, `shards`, `count` and `maxCount`) for each Test Workflow or Test reference.

You can read more about it in the general [**Matrix and Sharding**](./test-workflows-matrix-and-sharding.md) documentation.

Commit message:

Add YouTube Videos
Test Workflows: https://www.youtube.com/embed/iHUTYT6L2Ns
Test Workflows - Test Suites: https://youtube.com/embed/kvcq-J_ZhVA
Postman: https://www.youtube.com/embed/7HAwEtFDwvU
ArgoCD:  https://testkube.io/blog/a-gitops-powered-kubernetes-testing-machine-with-argocd-and-testkube

docs/articles/test-workflows-test-suites.md, after:

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

# Test Workflows - Test Suites

import RequiresCommercialWorkflows from "./_commercial-workflows-note.mdx"

<RequiresCommercialWorkflows/>

With Test Workflows it is possible to run downstream Test Workflows and Tests with `execute` operation,
similarly to what you can do in Test Suites.

Watch Test Workflows in action to create comprehensive system tests:

<iframe width="400" height="200" src="https://youtube.com/embed/kvcq-J_ZhVA" title="Creating System Test Workflows using Testkube" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture; web-share" referrerpolicy="strict-origin-when-cross-origin" allowfullscreen></iframe>

## Advantages Over Original Test Suites

As it is regular Test Workflow, where a single step is dispatching downstream Test Workflows and Tests,
the execution is very flexible. You can:

* Fetch input data before (i.e. by using `curl`/`wget` to download data, or fetching Git repository)
* Run setup operations (i.e. start shared instance of database, or generate API key)
* Process the results (i.e. by notifying about the status)
* Run other tests based on the previous results
* Trigger Workflows in other environments
* Nest workflows - workflow triggering workflow(s), triggering other workflow(s)

:::warning

Test Workflows is our long-term solution, so keep in mind that the original Test Suites are being deprecated - [Read More   ](/articles/legacy-features).

:::

## Syntax

You have to use `execute` operation in the step, and provide definition of the Test Workflows to run - [Schema Reference](/articles/crds/testworkflows.testkube.io-v1#stepexecute).

:::tip

The Testkube Dashboard contains a visual builder for creating Composite Workflows -
[Read More](/articles/testkube-dashboard-workflows-overview#creating-a-workflow-by-combining-existing-workflows)

:::

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="yaml" label="YAML" default>

```yaml
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestWorkflow
metadata:
  name: example-test-suite
spec:
  steps:
  - execute:
      workflows:
      - name: example-distributed-k6
        description: Run {{ index + 1 }} of {{ count }}
        count: 2
        config:
          vus: 8
          duration: 1s
          workers: 2
      - name: example-sharded-cypress
      tests:
      - name: example-test
        description: Example without request
      - name: example-test
        description: Example with env variables
        executionRequest:
          variables:
            SOME_VARIABLE:
              type: basic
              name: SOME_VARIABLE
              value: some-value
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="log" label="Log Output">

![example-test-suite.png](../img/example-test-suite.png)

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

### Running Test Workflows

To run Test Workflow as part of the `execute` step, you have to add its reference in the `workflows` list.

You need to provide `name`, along with optional `config` values for parametrization.

### Running Tests

:::warning
Tests are being deprecated from Testkube - so only use this possibility if/while transitioning to Workflows
- [Read More](legacy-features.md).
:::

To run Tests as part of the `execute` step, you have to add its reference in the `tests` list.

You need to provide `name`, along with optional `executionRequest` values for parametrization,
that are similar to the regular Test execution request.

### Controlling the Concurrency Level

You can use `parallelism` property to control how many Test Workflows and Tests will be running at once.

In example, to run all the downstream jobs sequentially, you can use `parallelism: 1`.
It affects jobs instantiated by [**matrix and sharding**](./test-workflows-matrix-and-sharding.md) properties (like `count`) too.

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="yaml" label="YAML" default>

```yaml
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestWorkflow
metadata:
  name: example-sequential-test-suite
spec:
  steps:
  - execute:
      parallelism: 1
      workflows:
      - name: example-distributed-k6
        count: 2
        config:
          vus: 8
          duration: 1s
          workers: 2
      - name: example-sharded-cypress
      tests:
      - name: example-test
        count: 5
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="log" label="Log Output">

![example-sequential-test-suite.png](../img/example-sequential-test-suite.png)

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Nesting Workflows
Workflows can be nested - workflow can execute workflow(s) executing other workflow(s). [**Parallelism**](#controlling-the-concurrency-level) can then be used to control the execution flow.

Example:

Tool-specific workflow (in this case k6 - executing multiple workflows for different cases)
```yaml
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestWorkflow
metadata:
  name: k6-workflow-suite
spec:
  steps:
  - execute:
      parallelism: 2
      workflows:
      - name: k6-workflow-smoke
      - name: k6-workflow-smoke-template
      - name: k6-workflow-smoke-template-without-checkout-step
      - name: k6-workflow-smoke-artifacts
      - name: distributed-k6-workflow-smoke
      - name: distributed-k6-workflow-smoke-artifacts
```

That can be executed from another workflow
```yaml
kind: TestWorkflow
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
metadata:
  name: tw-suite-full
spec:
  steps:
  - execute:
      parallelism: 2
      workflows:
      - name: artillery-workflow-suite
      - name: cypress-workflow-suite
      - name: gradle-workflow-suite
      - name: jmeter-workflow-suite
      - name: k6-workflow-suite # workflow from the example
      - name: maven-workflow-suite
      - name: playwright-workflow-suite
      - name: postman-workflow-suite
      - name: soapui-workflow-suite
```

## Passing Input from Files

It may happen that you will need to pass information from the file system. You can either pass the files using Test Workflow expressions (like `file("./file-content.txt")`) or using a `tarball` syntax.

### Specific Files

You can easily use Test Workflow expressions to fetch some files and send them as a configuration variable:

```yaml
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestWorkflow
metadata:
  name: example-test-suite-with-file-input
spec:
  content:
    git:
      uri: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube
      revision: main
      paths:
      - test/k6/executor-tests/k6-smoke-test-without-envs.js
  steps:
  - execute:
      workflows:
      - name: example-distributed-k6
        config:
          vus: 8
          duration: 1s
          workers: 2
          script: '{{ file("/data/repo/test/k6/executor-tests/k6-smoke-test-without-envs.js") }}'
```

### Multiple Files Transfer

To transfer multiple files, similarly to `transfer` in [**Parallel Steps**](./test-workflows-parallel.md#copying-content-inside),
you can use a `tarball` syntax that will pack selected files and return the URL to download them:

```yaml
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestWorkflow
metadata:
  name: example-test-suite-with-file-input-packaged
spec:
  content:
    git:
      uri: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube
      revision: main
      paths:
      - test/k6/executor-tests/k6-smoke-test-without-envs.js
  steps:
  - execute:
      workflows:
      - name: example-test-reading-files
        tarball:
          scripts:
            from: /data/repo
        config:
          input: '{{ tarball.scripts.url }}'
```

You can later use i.e. `content.tarball` to unpack them in destination test:

```yaml
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestWorkflow
metadata:
  name: example-test-reading-files
spec:
  config:
    input: {type: string}
  content:
    tarball:
    - url: "{{ config.input }}" # extract provided tarball
      path: "/data/repo"        # to local /data/repo directory (or any other)
  steps:
  - shell: tree /data/repo
```

### Matrix and Sharding

The `execute` operation supports matrix and sharding, to run multiple replicas and/or distribute the load across multiple runs.
It is supported by regular matrix/sharding properties (`matrix`, `shards`, `count` and `maxCount`) for each Test Workflow or Test reference.

You can read more about it in the general [**Matrix and Sharding**](./test-workflows-matrix-and-sharding.md) documentation.
