docs/articles/test-workflows-examples-configuration.md, before:

# Test Workflows Examples - Configuration

## Declaring the Configuration

Test Workflows may define some configuration variables that should be used.
The configuration schema is OpenAPI-like.

When the configuration variable doesn’t already have a default clause, it’s required.

### Using the Variables

The configuration variables can be used in the specification as an expression, i.e. `cypress run {{config.args}}`.

You can use the variables in most of the places - commands, paths, images, static files, or even conditions.

```yaml
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestWorkflow
metadata:
  name: overview--example-13
spec:
  config:
    version:
      type: string
      default: "1.32.3"
    workers:
      type: integer
      default: 2
    printTree:
      type: boolean
      default: "false"

  content:
    git:
      uri: "https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube"
      paths:
        - "test/playwright/executor-tests/playwright-project"

  container:
    image: "mcr.microsoft.com/playwright:v{{ config.version }}"
    workingDir: "/data/repo/test/playwright/executor-tests/playwright-project"

  steps:
    - shell: "npm ci && npx playwright test --workers {{ config.workers }}"
    - condition: "config.printTree"
      shell: "tree /data/repo"
```

### Using Secrets or ConfigMaps

You can also use Secrets and ConfigMaps to define variables. In this case, you would
set the parameter as an environment variable and use the `valueFrom` property. You
can read the value through a shell or expression.

```yaml
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestWorkflow
metadata:
  name: example-with-secrets
spec:
  # Declare the environment variable from secret
  container:
    env:
      - name: MY_SUPER_SECRET
        valueFrom:
          secretKeyRef:
            name: your-secret-name
            key: key-in-the-secret

  # Run the step using it
  steps:
    - shell: |
        # Shell way
        echo "$MY_SUPER_SECRET"
        # Expression way
        echo "{{ env.MY_SUPER_SECRET }}"
        # Sanitized expression
        echo {{ shellquote(env.MY_SUPER_SECRET) }}
```

## UI

### Running in the UI

After clicking “Run now” in the UI, if the Test Workflow has additional configuration parameters, you will be prompted to enter them.

![Running in the UI](../img/run-in-the-ui.png)

## CLI

#### Running with the CLI

With the CLI, you can provide the variables with **--config** arguments.

![Running with CLI](../img/running-with-cli.png)

To use secrets, you'd have to use the `--env-var` or `--global-var` option instead as
they are environment variables.

## Test Suite (Execute)

### Running with Execute (Test Suite Like)

Configurable Test Workflows may also be parameterized in the **execute** step. Use this for passing dynamic data.

```yaml
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestWorkflow
metadata:
  name: overview--example-14
spec:
  steps:
    - execute:
        workflows:
          - name: "overview--example-13"
            config:
              workers: 2
          - name: "overview--example-13"
            config:
              workers: 4
          - name: "overview--example-13"
            config:
              version: "1.23.4"
```

Commit message:

docs: sensitive flag
Signed-off-by: Vladislav Sukhin <vladislav@kubeshop.io>

docs/articles/test-workflows-examples-configuration.md, after:

# Test Workflows Examples - Configuration

## Declaring the Configuration

Test Workflows may define some configuration variables that should be used.
The configuration schema is OpenAPI-like.

When the configuration variable doesn’t already have a default clause, it’s required.
Values of configuration variables with sensitive flag will be stored in test workflow execution secret.

### Using the Variables

The configuration variables can be used in the specification as an expression, i.e. `cypress run {{config.args}}`.

You can use the variables in most of the places - commands, paths, images, static files, or even conditions.


```yaml
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestWorkflow
metadata:
  name: overview--example-13
spec:
  config:
    version:
      type: string
      default: "1.32.3"
    workers:
      type: integer
      default: 2
      sensitive: true
    printTree:
      type: boolean
      default: "false"

  content:
    git:
      uri: "https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube"
      paths:
        - "test/playwright/executor-tests/playwright-project"

  container:
    image: "mcr.microsoft.com/playwright:v{{ config.version }}"
    workingDir: "/data/repo/test/playwright/executor-tests/playwright-project"

  steps:
    - shell: "npm ci && npx playwright test --workers {{ config.workers }}"
    - condition: "config.printTree"
      shell: "tree /data/repo"
```

### Using Secrets or ConfigMaps

You can also use Secrets and ConfigMaps to define variables. In this case, you would
set the parameter as an environment variable and use the `valueFrom` property. You
can read the value through a shell or expression.

```yaml
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestWorkflow
metadata:
  name: example-with-secrets
spec:
  # Declare the environment variable from secret
  container:
    env:
      - name: MY_SUPER_SECRET
        valueFrom:
          secretKeyRef:
            name: your-secret-name
            key: key-in-the-secret

  # Run the step using it
  steps:
    - shell: |
        # Shell way
        echo "$MY_SUPER_SECRET"
        # Expression way
        echo "{{ env.MY_SUPER_SECRET }}"
        # Sanitized expression
        echo {{ shellquote(env.MY_SUPER_SECRET) }}
```

## UI

### Running in the UI

After clicking “Run now” in the UI, if the Test Workflow has additional configuration parameters, you will be prompted to enter them.

![Running in the UI](../img/run-in-the-ui.png)

## CLI

#### Running with the CLI

With the CLI, you can provide the variables with **--config** arguments.

![Running with CLI](../img/running-with-cli.png)

To use secrets, you'd have to use the `--env-var` or `--global-var` option instead as
they are environment variables.

## Test Suite (Execute)

### Running with Execute (Test Suite Like)

Configurable Test Workflows may also be parameterized in the **execute** step. Use this for passing dynamic data.

```yaml
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestWorkflow
metadata:
  name: overview--example-14
spec:
  steps:
    - execute:
        workflows:
          - name: "overview--example-13"
            config:
              workers: 2
          - name: "overview--example-13"
            config:
              workers: 4
          - name: "overview--example-13"
            config:
              version: "1.23.4"
```
