docs/articles/test-workflows-content.mdx, before:

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

# Test Workflows - Content

Often you need to provide some input data for your tests - whether it's Tests source code,
or some fixtures.

:::note

All the examples here that are using `content` are using it directly under the `spec`.
Please note, that you can also use it under a specific step - this way, such files won't be available
in different steps - see [Schema Reference](/articles/crds/testworkflows.testkube.io-v1#content).

:::

:::tip

Remember, that the working directory won't be affected by any of these settings.
If you want to change default working directory, i.e. to the cloned repository,
you can use `workingDir`:

```yaml
spec:
  container:
    workingDir: /data/repo
```

:::

## Shared Directories

### /data

By default, the `/data` directory has an empty volume mounted that can be shared across the steps.

:::info

Please note, that this directory is shared across steps of a single execution. To share data across multiple executions, see [**Shared Directory Between Executions**](#shared-directory-between-executions).

:::

### Custom Volumes

You may create different directories that will share data across steps using Kubernetes. To do so, create and mount [**Empty Dir**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#emptydir) volume.
This may be useful for sharing a dependencies across steps, for example.

```yaml
spec:
  pod:
    volumes:
      - name: golang-deps
        emptyDir: {}
  container:
    env:
      - name: GOCACHE
        value: /go-cache
    volumeMounts:
      - name: golang-deps
        mountPath: /go-cache
```

### Shared Directory Between Executions

:::info

We are planning to prepare a built-in caching mechanism that will allow you to share data more easily.

:::

If you want to cache some data between executions, i.e., to speed up execution, you may consider mounting [**Host's file system**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#hostpath) with `hostPath`.

```yaml
spec:
  pod:
    volumes:
      - name: golang-deps
        hostPath:
          path: "/tmp/go-cache-{{ workflow.name }}"
  container:
    env:
      - name: GOCACHE
        value: /go-cache
    volumeMounts:
      - name: golang-deps
        mountPath: /go-cache
```

This way, you will have a cache for each execution of the Test Workflow on the same node.

:::tip

If you want to cache data across multiple nodes, you may consider:

- using an Object Storage API like [**Minio**](https://min.io/), [**AWS S3**](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/) or [**GCP Cloud Storage**](https://cloud.google.com/storage),
  and save/read files using it, or
- creating a [**Persistent Volume**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/) and attaching it with `pod.volumes` and `container.volumeMounts`.

:::

## Static Files

To mount a static file, you can use `content.files`.

```yaml
spec:
  content:
    files:
      - path: /etc/nginx/nginx.conf
        content: |
          events {
            worker_connections 1024;
          }
          http {
            server {
              listen 8888;
              location / {
                root /www;
              }
            }
          }
      - path: /www/index.html
        content: "hello-there"
```

### Mounting From a Secret or ConfigMap

If you need to mount the secret as a file, you can use `contentFrom` clause in `content.files`. It has the same interface as `valueFrom` in [**native EnvVar**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.23/#envvarsource-v1-core).

```yaml
spec:
  content:
    files:
      - path: /some/path/secret.key
        contentFrom:
          secretKeyRef: # Mount from Secret
            name: secret-name
            key: key-name-in-secret
      - path: /some/path/nginx.conf
        contentFrom:
          configMapKeyRef: # Mount from ConfigMap
            name: secret-name
            key: key-name-in-secret
```

### Mounting Secret or ConfigMap as a Directory

As an alternative, you may use native Kubernetes volumes for mounting [**Secrets**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#secret) or [**ConfigMaps**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#configmap).

```yaml
spec:
  pod:
    volumes:
      # Create volume from the Secret
      - name: example-secret-volume
        secret:
          secretName: secret-name
      # Create volume from the ConfigMap
      - name: example-configmap-volume
        configMap:
          name: configmap-name
  container:
    volumeMounts:
      # Mount files from the Secret
      - name: example-secret-volume
        mountPath: /some/secret
      # Mount files from the ConfigMap
      - name: example-configmap-volume
        mountPath: /some/config
```

## Working Directory Resolution

A few useful hints about the `workingDir` resolution:
- without `workingDir` (or with empty) in step - it will use the parent's working dir (down the workflow specification tree)
- without `workingDir` (or with empty) at all in the workflow specification tree - it will use working dir from the image default
- with relative `workingDir` in step - it will go further from parent's working dir (down the workflow specification tree)
- with relative `workingDir` in step, but no other in a workflow specification tree - it will go further from the image default
- the parent is whatever is found in the workflow specification tree, for example, the Global Template's `spec.container.workingDir`
goes down to Test Workflows `spec.container.workingDir` (unless overridden).

## Git Repository

Testkube allows you to easily fetch the Git repository using `content.git`.

:::tip

Remember, that the working directory won't be affected by any of these settings.
If you want to change default working directory, i.e. to the cloned repository,
you can use `workingDir`:

```yaml
spec:
  container:
    workingDir: /data/repo
```

:::

### Custom Mount Path

By default, the Git repository contents are mounted at `/data/repo` directory.
If you want to mount it in a different directory, you can use `mountPath` property:

```yaml
spec:
  content:
    git:
      uri: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube.git
      mountPath: /custom/mount/path
  steps:
    - shell: tree /custom/mount/path
```

### Public Repositories

To use a public repository, simply pass the URL of the repository and it will be automatically mounted in `/data/repo`.

```yaml
spec:
  content:
    git:
      uri: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube.git
      # You may also fetch different revision:
      # revision: main
      # revision: v1.7.30
      # revision: 2457ba80c1e0ade682b202fbec7062d82107e12f
  steps:
    - shell: tree /data/repo
```

### Using Username and Password/Token

Private repositories may need authentication with username and password/token.
To authenticate that way, you can use `username`/`usernameFrom` and `token`/`tokenFrom` properties.

The `username` and `token` properties take plain-text arguments. If you want to take username and password/token from the Secret or ConfigMap,
you can use `usernameFrom` and/or `tokenFrom` properties. They have the same interface as `valueFrom` in [**native EnvVar**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.23/#envvarsource-v1-core).

```yaml
spec:
  content:
    git:
      uri: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube.git
      username: my-username
      # usernameFrom:
      #   secretKeyRef:
      #     name: git-credentials
      #     key: username
      token: my-token
      # tokenFrom:
      #   secretKeyRef:
      #     name: git-credentials
      #     key: token
```

### Using Authorization Header

The example above is using Basic Authorization. Some Git providers may require Bearer Authentication instead.
To provide the bearer token, you need to pass `authType: header` property.

```yaml
spec:
  content:
    git:
      uri: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube.git
      authType: header
      token: my-token
      # tokenFrom:
      #   secretKeyRef:
      #     name: git-credentials
      #     key: token
```

### Using GitHub App

GitHub allows authentication through [GitHub Apps][github-app].
Using a GitHub App simplifies managing tokens and auditing which repositories Testkube has access to.
The execution pod will now also receive short-lived tokens from the control plane which further improves security.

You will need to [install a GitHub App to Testkube][github-app-install] to use this authentication strategy.

```yaml
spec:
  content:
    git:
      uri: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube.git
      authType: github
```

### Using SSH Key

You can use a private SSH key to access your repository, using either plain-text `sshKey` property,
or `sshKeyFrom` that has the same interface as `valueFrom` in [**native EnvVar**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.23/#envvarsource-v1-core).

```yaml
spec:
  content:
    git:
      uri: ssh://git@github.com/kubeshop/testkube.git
      sshKeyFrom:
        secretKeyRef:
          name: git-credentials
          key: ssh-key
      # sshKey: |
      #   -----BEGIN OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----
      #   b3BlbnNzaC1rZXktdjEAAAAABG5vbmUAAAAEbm9uZQAAAAAAAAABAAAAMwAAAAtzc2gtZW
      #   XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
      #   XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
      #   XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
      #   Py55nRNObUBBaG/XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX=
      #   -----END OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----
```

### Pulling Selected Files

You may pass file patterns in `content.git.paths` which should be fetched from the Git repository.
It will use [**sparse checkout**](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-sparse-checkout), so you will avoid transferring unnecessary files.

By default it uses no-cone mode (so file paths needs to be passed as [**full pattern**](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-sparse-checkout#_internalsfull_pattern_set)).
To use cone mode and interpret file patterns as a [**cone pattern**](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-sparse-checkout#_internalscone_pattern_set) (which became default in Git since v2.37),
add `cone: true` property under `content.git`.

```yaml
spec:
  content:
    git:
      uri: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube.git
      # cone: true # if you want to enable cone patterns
      paths:
        - test/cypress/cypress-12
```

### Customizable Git Branch

Often you may want to run the Test Workflow for different code revisions (i.e. running it on Pull Requests with [**GitHub Action**](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/testkube-action)).

You can use [**Test Workflow Expressions**](./test-workflows-expressions.md) there, so it may be customized with [**configuration variables**](./test-workflows-examples-configuration.md):

```yaml
spec:
  config:
    branch:
      type: string
      default: main
  content:
    git:
      uri: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube.git
      revision: "{{ config.branch }}"
```

## Using multiple Git repositories

There are a few different ways to do it.

### Use multiple content.git setups

The content.git clause may be nested to load multiple repositories.

```yaml
spec:
  content:
    git:
      uri: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube
steps:
- content:
    git:
      uri: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube-operator
      mountPath: /operator
  steps:
  - shell: ls -lah /data/repo && ls -lah /operator
```

The cloned repositories will be available only for nested steps.<br/>
**Explanation**: Under the hood, it will create EmptyDir volumes and volume mounts at /data/repo and /operator and clone the repositories there.<br/>
**Potential QoL future improvement**: add syntax to clone multiple repositories, like clone.gits.

### Custom step to load the selected repositories

You can just have an initial step to load the selected repositories.
If you are actually using it in multiple tests, likely it would be best to have it in the TestWorkflowTemplate.

```yaml
spec:
  pod:
    volumes:
    - name: repos
      emptyDir: {}
  container:
    volumeMounts:
    - name: repos
      mountPath: /repos
  setup:
  - name: Load common repositories
    run:
      image: bitnami/git:2.49.0
      shell: |
        git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube /repos/testkube
        git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube-operator /repos/operator
  - shell: tree /repos
```

**Explanation**: this would create EmptyDir volume at /repos, load the repositories in there, and keep it available for all other steps.

### Clone to common EmptyDir volume

```yaml
We already have an EmptyDir volume mounted in /data by default, so you can just use it:
spec:
  setup:
  - name: Load common repositories
    run:
      image: bitnami/git:2.49.0
      shell: |
        git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube /data/repos/testkube
        git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube-operator /data/repos/operator
  - shell: tree /data/repos
```

### Pure Steps

Assuming that you would be i.e. always using the same image, you need to have a user that will have permissions to write in some into container storage,
and you can then just clone it as above, but without a volume.

```yaml
spec:
  system:
    pureByDefault: true
  container:
    securityContext:
      runAsUser: 0 # ensure that you have permissions to write in some random /repos directory
  setup:
  - name: Load common repositories
    run:
      image: bitnami/git:2.49.0
      shell: |
        git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube /repos/testkube
        git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube-operator /repos/operator
  - shell: tree /repos
```

**Explanation**: it will clone the repos into the ephemeral storage where the image is unpacked.<br/>
It's rather not recommended - EmptyDir will be much more resilient, secure, and with a similar performance.

### Getting from another place

If you don't actually need a repository, but i.e. some binary that you have available somewhere, there is a mechanism to untar these dependencies:

```yaml
spec:
  content:
    tarball:
    - url: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube/releases/download/v2.1.131/testkube_2.1.131_Linux_x86_64.tar.gz
      path: /testkube-binaries
  steps:
  - shell: tree /testkube-binaries
```

**Explanation**: it will mount an EmptyDir volume if needed, download the tarball and unpack it to the selected directory.

### Git submodules

Your main repository could have all these repos loaded as a Git submodules.

```yaml
spec:
  content:
    git:
      uri: https://github.com/robocorp/example-use-git-submodule-for-shared-code
  setup:
  - name: Load submodules
    run:
      image: bitnami/git:2.49.0
      workingDir: /data/repo
      shell: git -c safe.directory=/data/repo submodule update --init --recursive
  - shell: tree /data/repo
```

**Explanation**: Testkube will load the repository, while the prepared submodules will be available too.<br/>
**Potential future QoL improvement**: we could add submodules: true option for the content.git, that would basically do it. (edited)

## Fetching Tarballs

Testkube has a simple built-in way to fetch tarball archives for your tests. You may use `content.tarball` to specify the files to download and unpack:

```yaml
spec:
  content:
    tarball:
      - url: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube/releases/download/v1.17.53/testkube_1.17.53_Linux_arm64.tar.gz
        path: /data/bin
  steps:
    - shell: tree /data/bin
```

## Fetching OCI Artifacts

Sometimes, especially in air-gapped environment, you may want to provide the test data via OCI Registries.

You may use [**ORAS**](https://oras.land/) to fetch artifacts from the OCI registry.
To do so, run a step with Docker image that has ORAS installed and pull the artifact into `/data` (or other known volume):

```yaml
spec:
  steps:
    - run:
        image: bitnami/oras:latest
        workingDir: /data
        shell: |
          oras pull 12345678901234.dkr.ecr.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/some/artifact:latest
    - shell: tree /data
```

### OCI Images

Sometimes the registry won't support the OCI Artifacts, and, instead, they are available as regular images.
To fetch the data from such an image, simply run a step using that image,
and copy all the expected contents into `/data` (or other known volume):

```yaml
spec:
  steps:
    - run:
        image: "12345678901234.dkr.ecr.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/some/image:latest"
        shell: "cp -rf /some/test/content /data"
    - shell: tree /data
```

:::tip

Test Workflows automatically have access to some binaries to use (i.e. shell) even on distroless images.
Thanks to that, you can use general shell commands (i.e. `cp`, `tar` or `tree`) even on images where they are not available.

:::

## Object Storage

To download your test data from the Object Storage you may simply use a Docker image with CLI that allows that,
and fetch the data.

```yaml
spec:
  steps:
    - run:
        image: minio/mc:latest
        env:
          - name: STORAGE_URL
            value: https://s3.us-south.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud
          - name: STORAGE_ACCESS_KEY
            value: AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE
          - name: STORAGE_SECRET_KEY
            value: wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY
          - name: STORAGE_BUCKET
            value: artifacts
        shell: |
          /usr/bin/mc config host add storage "$STORAGE_URL" "$STORAGE_ACCESS_KEY" "$STORAGE_SECRET_KEY"
          /usr/bin/mc cp "storage/$STORAGE_BUCKET/some-artifact.tar.gz" /data/some-artifact.tar.gz
          tar -zxf /data/some-artifact.tar.gz
          rm /data/some-artifact.tar.gz
    - shell: tree /data
```

## Custom Sources

Similarly to the Object Storage example above, you can perform any other action in first step,
copy the results to shared directory, and then perform any work on that.

## Reusing Content Between Multiple Test Workflows

You may have multiple Test Workflows that needs access to the same test content. It's a good practice to abstract that with [**Test Workflow Templates**](./test-workflows-examples-templates.md).

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="template" label="Template" default>

```yaml
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestWorkflowTemplate
metadata:
  name: git-testkube
spec:
  config:
    revision:
      type: string
      default: main
  content:
    git:
      uri: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube.git
      revision: "{{ config.revision }}"
      sshKeyFrom:
        secretKeyRef:
          name: git-credentials
          key: ssh-key
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="workflow" label="Test Workflow">

```yaml
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestWorkflowTemplate
metadata:
  name: example-workflow
spec:
  use:
    - name: git-testkube
      config:
        revision: develop
  steps:
    - shell: tree /data/repo
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

[github-app]: https://docs.github.com/en/apps
[github-app-install]: /articles/github-actions#using-github-apps-with-testkube

Commit message:

docs: highlight limitations of cloning from multiple repos

docs/articles/test-workflows-content.mdx, after:

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

# Test Workflows - Content

Often you need to provide some input data for your tests - whether it's Tests source code,
or some fixtures.

:::note

All the examples here that are using `content` are using it directly under the `spec`.
Please note, that you can also use it under a specific step - this way, such files won't be available
in different steps - see [Schema Reference](/articles/crds/testworkflows.testkube.io-v1#content).

:::

:::tip

Remember, that the working directory won't be affected by any of these settings.
If you want to change default working directory, i.e. to the cloned repository,
you can use `workingDir`:

```yaml
spec:
  container:
    workingDir: /data/repo
```

:::

## Shared Directories

### /data

By default, the `/data` directory has an empty volume mounted that can be shared across the steps.

:::info

Please note, that this directory is shared across steps of a single execution. To share data across multiple executions, see [**Shared Directory Between Executions**](#shared-directory-between-executions).

:::

### Custom Volumes

You may create different directories that will share data across steps using Kubernetes. To do so, create and mount [**Empty Dir**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#emptydir) volume.
This may be useful for sharing a dependencies across steps, for example.

```yaml
spec:
  pod:
    volumes:
      - name: golang-deps
        emptyDir: {}
  container:
    env:
      - name: GOCACHE
        value: /go-cache
    volumeMounts:
      - name: golang-deps
        mountPath: /go-cache
```

### Shared Directory Between Executions

:::info

We are planning to prepare a built-in caching mechanism that will allow you to share data more easily.

:::

If you want to cache some data between executions, i.e., to speed up execution, you may consider mounting [**Host's file system**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#hostpath) with `hostPath`.

```yaml
spec:
  pod:
    volumes:
      - name: golang-deps
        hostPath:
          path: "/tmp/go-cache-{{ workflow.name }}"
  container:
    env:
      - name: GOCACHE
        value: /go-cache
    volumeMounts:
      - name: golang-deps
        mountPath: /go-cache
```

This way, you will have a cache for each execution of the Test Workflow on the same node.

:::tip

If you want to cache data across multiple nodes, you may consider:

- using an Object Storage API like [**Minio**](https://min.io/), [**AWS S3**](https://aws.amazon.com/s3/) or [**GCP Cloud Storage**](https://cloud.google.com/storage),
  and save/read files using it, or
- creating a [**Persistent Volume**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/persistent-volumes/) and attaching it with `pod.volumes` and `container.volumeMounts`.

:::

## Static Files

To mount a static file, you can use `content.files`.

```yaml
spec:
  content:
    files:
      - path: /etc/nginx/nginx.conf
        content: |
          events {
            worker_connections 1024;
          }
          http {
            server {
              listen 8888;
              location / {
                root /www;
              }
            }
          }
      - path: /www/index.html
        content: "hello-there"
```

### Mounting From a Secret or ConfigMap

If you need to mount the secret as a file, you can use `contentFrom` clause in `content.files`. It has the same interface as `valueFrom` in [**native EnvVar**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.23/#envvarsource-v1-core).

```yaml
spec:
  content:
    files:
      - path: /some/path/secret.key
        contentFrom:
          secretKeyRef: # Mount from Secret
            name: secret-name
            key: key-name-in-secret
      - path: /some/path/nginx.conf
        contentFrom:
          configMapKeyRef: # Mount from ConfigMap
            name: secret-name
            key: key-name-in-secret
```

### Mounting Secret or ConfigMap as a Directory

As an alternative, you may use native Kubernetes volumes for mounting [**Secrets**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#secret) or [**ConfigMaps**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/storage/volumes/#configmap).

```yaml
spec:
  pod:
    volumes:
      # Create volume from the Secret
      - name: example-secret-volume
        secret:
          secretName: secret-name
      # Create volume from the ConfigMap
      - name: example-configmap-volume
        configMap:
          name: configmap-name
  container:
    volumeMounts:
      # Mount files from the Secret
      - name: example-secret-volume
        mountPath: /some/secret
      # Mount files from the ConfigMap
      - name: example-configmap-volume
        mountPath: /some/config
```

## Working Directory Resolution

A few useful hints about the `workingDir` resolution:
- without `workingDir` (or with empty) in step - it will use the parent's working dir (down the workflow specification tree)
- without `workingDir` (or with empty) at all in the workflow specification tree - it will use working dir from the image default
- with relative `workingDir` in step - it will go further from parent's working dir (down the workflow specification tree)
- with relative `workingDir` in step, but no other in a workflow specification tree - it will go further from the image default
- the parent is whatever is found in the workflow specification tree, for example, the Global Template's `spec.container.workingDir`
goes down to Test Workflows `spec.container.workingDir` (unless overridden).

## Git Repository

Testkube allows you to easily fetch the Git repository using `content.git`.

:::tip

Remember, that the working directory won't be affected by any of these settings.
If you want to change default working directory, i.e. to the cloned repository,
you can use `workingDir`:

```yaml
spec:
  container:
    workingDir: /data/repo
```

:::

### Custom Mount Path

By default, the Git repository contents are mounted at `/data/repo` directory.
If you want to mount it in a different directory, you can use `mountPath` property:

```yaml
spec:
  content:
    git:
      uri: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube.git
      mountPath: /custom/mount/path
  steps:
    - shell: tree /custom/mount/path
```

### Public Repositories

To use a public repository, simply pass the URL of the repository and it will be automatically mounted in `/data/repo`.

```yaml
spec:
  content:
    git:
      uri: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube.git
      # You may also fetch different revision:
      # revision: main
      # revision: v1.7.30
      # revision: 2457ba80c1e0ade682b202fbec7062d82107e12f
  steps:
    - shell: tree /data/repo
```

### Using Username and Password/Token

Private repositories may need authentication with username and password/token.
To authenticate that way, you can use `username`/`usernameFrom` and `token`/`tokenFrom` properties.

The `username` and `token` properties take plain-text arguments. If you want to take username and password/token from the Secret or ConfigMap,
you can use `usernameFrom` and/or `tokenFrom` properties. They have the same interface as `valueFrom` in [**native EnvVar**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.23/#envvarsource-v1-core).

```yaml
spec:
  content:
    git:
      uri: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube.git
      username: my-username
      # usernameFrom:
      #   secretKeyRef:
      #     name: git-credentials
      #     key: username
      token: my-token
      # tokenFrom:
      #   secretKeyRef:
      #     name: git-credentials
      #     key: token
```

### Using Authorization Header

The example above is using Basic Authorization. Some Git providers may require Bearer Authentication instead.
To provide the bearer token, you need to pass `authType: header` property.

```yaml
spec:
  content:
    git:
      uri: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube.git
      authType: header
      token: my-token
      # tokenFrom:
      #   secretKeyRef:
      #     name: git-credentials
      #     key: token
```

### Using GitHub App

GitHub allows authentication through [GitHub Apps][github-app].
Using a GitHub App simplifies managing tokens and auditing which repositories Testkube has access to.
The execution pod will now also receive short-lived tokens from the control plane which further improves security.

You will need to [install a GitHub App to Testkube][github-app-install] to use this authentication strategy.

```yaml
spec:
  content:
    git:
      uri: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube.git
      authType: github
```

### Using SSH Key

You can use a private SSH key to access your repository, using either plain-text `sshKey` property,
or `sshKeyFrom` that has the same interface as `valueFrom` in [**native EnvVar**](https://kubernetes.io/docs/reference/generated/kubernetes-api/v1.23/#envvarsource-v1-core).

```yaml
spec:
  content:
    git:
      uri: ssh://git@github.com/kubeshop/testkube.git
      sshKeyFrom:
        secretKeyRef:
          name: git-credentials
          key: ssh-key
      # sshKey: |
      #   -----BEGIN OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----
      #   b3BlbnNzaC1rZXktdjEAAAAABG5vbmUAAAAEbm9uZQAAAAAAAAABAAAAMwAAAAtzc2gtZW
      #   XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
      #   XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
      #   XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX
      #   Py55nRNObUBBaG/XXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXXX=
      #   -----END OPENSSH PRIVATE KEY-----
```

### Pulling Selected Files

You may pass file patterns in `content.git.paths` which should be fetched from the Git repository.
It will use [**sparse checkout**](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-sparse-checkout), so you will avoid transferring unnecessary files.

By default it uses no-cone mode (so file paths needs to be passed as [**full pattern**](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-sparse-checkout#_internalsfull_pattern_set)).
To use cone mode and interpret file patterns as a [**cone pattern**](https://git-scm.com/docs/git-sparse-checkout#_internalscone_pattern_set) (which became default in Git since v2.37),
add `cone: true` property under `content.git`.

```yaml
spec:
  content:
    git:
      uri: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube.git
      # cone: true # if you want to enable cone patterns
      paths:
        - test/cypress/cypress-12
```

### Customizable Git Branch

Often you may want to run the Test Workflow for different code revisions (i.e. running it on Pull Requests with [**GitHub Action**](https://github.com/marketplace/actions/testkube-action)).

You can use [**Test Workflow Expressions**](./test-workflows-expressions.md) there, so it may be customized with [**configuration variables**](./test-workflows-examples-configuration.md):

```yaml
spec:
  config:
    branch:
      type: string
      default: main
  content:
    git:
      uri: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube.git
      revision: "{{ config.branch }}"
```

## Using multiple Git repositories

There are a few different ways to do it.

### Use multiple content.git setups

The `content.git` clause may be nested to load multiple repositories.

:::

:::warning

The cloned repositories will be available **only for nested steps**.

:::

```yaml
spec:
  content:
    git:
      uri: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube
steps:
- content:
    git:
      uri: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube-operator
      mountPath: /operator
  # highlight-start
  # NOTE: Cloned data only available for these nested steps
  steps:
  # highlight-end
  - shell: ls -lah /data/repo && ls -lah /operator
```

**Explanation**: Under the hood, it will create EmptyDir volumes and volume mounts at /data/repo and /operator and clone the repositories there.<br/>
**Potential QoL future improvement**: add syntax to clone multiple repositories, like clone.gits.

### Custom step to load the selected repositories

You can just have an initial step to load the selected repositories.
If you are actually using it in multiple tests, likely it would be best to have it in the TestWorkflowTemplate.

```yaml
spec:
  pod:
    volumes:
    - name: repos
      emptyDir: {}
  container:
    volumeMounts:
    - name: repos
      mountPath: /repos
  setup:
  - name: Load common repositories
    run:
      image: bitnami/git:2.49.0
      shell: |
        git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube /repos/testkube
        git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube-operator /repos/operator
  - shell: tree /repos
```

**Explanation**: this would create EmptyDir volume at /repos, load the repositories in there, and keep it available for all other steps.

### Clone to common EmptyDir volume

```yaml
We already have an EmptyDir volume mounted in /data by default, so you can just use it:
spec:
  setup:
  - name: Load common repositories
    run:
      image: bitnami/git:2.49.0
      shell: |
        git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube /data/repos/testkube
        git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube-operator /data/repos/operator
  - shell: tree /data/repos
```

### Pure Steps

Assuming that you would be i.e. always using the same image, you need to have a user that will have permissions to write in some into container storage,
and you can then just clone it as above, but without a volume.

```yaml
spec:
  system:
    pureByDefault: true
  container:
    securityContext:
      runAsUser: 0 # ensure that you have permissions to write in some random /repos directory
  setup:
  - name: Load common repositories
    run:
      image: bitnami/git:2.49.0
      shell: |
        git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube /repos/testkube
        git clone --depth 1 https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube-operator /repos/operator
  - shell: tree /repos
```

**Explanation**: it will clone the repos into the ephemeral storage where the image is unpacked.<br/>
It's rather not recommended - EmptyDir will be much more resilient, secure, and with a similar performance.

### Getting from another place

If you don't actually need a repository, but i.e. some binary that you have available somewhere, there is a mechanism to untar these dependencies:

```yaml
spec:
  content:
    tarball:
    - url: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube/releases/download/v2.1.131/testkube_2.1.131_Linux_x86_64.tar.gz
      path: /testkube-binaries
  steps:
  - shell: tree /testkube-binaries
```

**Explanation**: it will mount an EmptyDir volume if needed, download the tarball and unpack it to the selected directory.

### Git submodules

Your main repository could have all these repos loaded as a Git submodules.

```yaml
spec:
  content:
    git:
      uri: https://github.com/robocorp/example-use-git-submodule-for-shared-code
  setup:
  - name: Load submodules
    run:
      image: bitnami/git:2.49.0
      workingDir: /data/repo
      shell: git -c safe.directory=/data/repo submodule update --init --recursive
  - shell: tree /data/repo
```

**Explanation**: Testkube will load the repository, while the prepared submodules will be available too.<br/>
**Potential future QoL improvement**: we could add submodules: true option for the content.git, that would basically do it. (edited)

## Fetching Tarballs

Testkube has a simple built-in way to fetch tarball archives for your tests. You may use `content.tarball` to specify the files to download and unpack:

```yaml
spec:
  content:
    tarball:
      - url: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube/releases/download/v1.17.53/testkube_1.17.53_Linux_arm64.tar.gz
        path: /data/bin
  steps:
    - shell: tree /data/bin
```

## Fetching OCI Artifacts

Sometimes, especially in air-gapped environment, you may want to provide the test data via OCI Registries.

You may use [**ORAS**](https://oras.land/) to fetch artifacts from the OCI registry.
To do so, run a step with Docker image that has ORAS installed and pull the artifact into `/data` (or other known volume):

```yaml
spec:
  steps:
    - run:
        image: bitnami/oras:latest
        workingDir: /data
        shell: |
          oras pull 12345678901234.dkr.ecr.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/some/artifact:latest
    - shell: tree /data
```

### OCI Images

Sometimes the registry won't support the OCI Artifacts, and, instead, they are available as regular images.
To fetch the data from such an image, simply run a step using that image,
and copy all the expected contents into `/data` (or other known volume):

```yaml
spec:
  steps:
    - run:
        image: "12345678901234.dkr.ecr.us-west-2.amazonaws.com/some/image:latest"
        shell: "cp -rf /some/test/content /data"
    - shell: tree /data
```

:::tip

Test Workflows automatically have access to some binaries to use (i.e. shell) even on distroless images.
Thanks to that, you can use general shell commands (i.e. `cp`, `tar` or `tree`) even on images where they are not available.

:::

## Object Storage

To download your test data from the Object Storage you may simply use a Docker image with CLI that allows that,
and fetch the data.

```yaml
spec:
  steps:
    - run:
        image: minio/mc:latest
        env:
          - name: STORAGE_URL
            value: https://s3.us-south.cloud-object-storage.appdomain.cloud
          - name: STORAGE_ACCESS_KEY
            value: AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE
          - name: STORAGE_SECRET_KEY
            value: wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY
          - name: STORAGE_BUCKET
            value: artifacts
        shell: |
          /usr/bin/mc config host add storage "$STORAGE_URL" "$STORAGE_ACCESS_KEY" "$STORAGE_SECRET_KEY"
          /usr/bin/mc cp "storage/$STORAGE_BUCKET/some-artifact.tar.gz" /data/some-artifact.tar.gz
          tar -zxf /data/some-artifact.tar.gz
          rm /data/some-artifact.tar.gz
    - shell: tree /data
```

## Custom Sources

Similarly to the Object Storage example above, you can perform any other action in first step,
copy the results to shared directory, and then perform any work on that.

## Reusing Content Between Multiple Test Workflows

You may have multiple Test Workflows that needs access to the same test content. It's a good practice to abstract that with [**Test Workflow Templates**](./test-workflows-examples-templates.md).

<Tabs>
<TabItem value="template" label="Template" default>

```yaml
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestWorkflowTemplate
metadata:
  name: git-testkube
spec:
  config:
    revision:
      type: string
      default: main
  content:
    git:
      uri: https://github.com/kubeshop/testkube.git
      revision: "{{ config.revision }}"
      sshKeyFrom:
        secretKeyRef:
          name: git-credentials
          key: ssh-key
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="workflow" label="Test Workflow">

```yaml
apiVersion: testworkflows.testkube.io/v1
kind: TestWorkflowTemplate
metadata:
  name: example-workflow
spec:
  use:
    - name: git-testkube
      config:
        revision: develop
  steps:
    - shell: tree /data/repo
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

[github-app]: https://docs.github.com/en/apps
[github-app-install]: /articles/github-actions#using-github-apps-with-testkube
